

-- 1 of 104 --



-- 2 of 104 --



-- 3 of 104 --



-- 4 of 104 --



-- 5 of 104 --

2
A Brief Timeline
of 	The CArCAss 	fronT
968: First fortifications raised in the Syrian Gate, which will eventually become
Baghras Fortress.
1099: The Knights Templar commit the Act of Ultimate Heresy. The Gate of Hell appears on
Earth. Jerusalem is destroyed in the cataclysm.
1103: The traitor Templars are dragged from Baghras and beheaded, their skulls built into its
towers to forever bear witness to what their weakness unleashed.
1272: After profaning both Heaven and Hell, the city of Nineveh Novus is burned from
above and below for seventy-two days.
1346: The Black Grail is unleashed upon the world. The House of Pillars is the only site
where the plagues of Beelzebub are thwarted.
1532: A single Assassin returns to Baghdad with the stolen secret of orichalcum steel.
1539: The Sayf Allah, the Sword of God, is completed, but wrathful at the deceit of his
alchemagi, the Sultan hands the great gun over to Antioch.
1565: The exiled prophet Nostradamus arrives at the court of the Holy Roman Emperor,
Rudolf II of the Hapsburgs, and convinces him to begin construction of a site for
flying machines that will become known as Rudolf ’s Folly.
1612: An unnatural storm blows in from the east and erases Rudolf ’s Folly entirely.
1625: As relations sour between New Antioch and the Sultanate, the alchemists and Sappers
maintaining the Sword of God are withdrawn and the gun falls silent.
1683: Paladin Gérin fights his way down through the Inferno to the gates of Dis to discover
why the Heretic Legions are collecting the Faithful Dead. His findings lead to the
establishment of the Demetrian Order of Reclamation.
1729: Following unsubstantiated rumours of Sultanate expansion, the Pilgrimage of Stone
begins as half a million pilgrims march to Mount Nemrut.
1731: The Pilgrimage of Stone ends with the raising of the Twelve on Kurd Dagh.
1809: Construction of the Domus Demetrius completed for the processing of
the Faithful dead.
1821: The Fall of Gaillimh in Éire. Warrior priest Cormac Mac Niadh is taken prisoner and
tortured for ten years, finally renouncing his faith to become War Priest Charon.
1865: The Heraklion Earthquake devastates the Anatolian Hellfront, the Levant, and North
Africa. The town of Dorythol is saved by the Miracle of the Wave.
1871: Heretic submarine Congregant of Mammon discovered drifting off the coast near
Alexandretta, its entire crew slaughtered.
1872: The Fall of Rijeka. Strange flying machines are seen in the skies and by means unknown
halt the construct hordes of Eligos. The Church decrees them angels of the Lord.
1888: War Priest Charon’s fleets ravage the Mediterranean in search of Leviathan’s
resting place.
1894: The Year of the Broken Trinity. A massive Heretic armoured spearhead is destroyed
on the shores of Lake Antioch, creating the Steel Necropolis. Amid the wreckage, it is
reported, are unusual flying machines bearing antiquated Hapsburg heraldry.
1904: Black Bartolomeo emerges from Lost Avignon, black with demon blood and ash.
1905: The Papal relief fleet is sunk by Heretic submarines and washes ashore, creating what
becomes known as the Carrion Coast. The Communicant Never-Know takes up his
vigil at the Pillar of Jonah, flushed with the holy flesh of the consumed Pope Leo XIII.
Black Bartolomeo receives a vision of Leviathan, becoming Blessed Bartolomeo.
1909: The Risen and thirty thousand Trench Pilgrims of the Lazarine Ascension recapture
Baghras Fortress from the Heretic Legions. They refuse all entreaties for them to leave.
1913: Blessed Bartolomeo arrives at the House of Pillars in search of the Prophecies of
Leviathan. He later burns the monastery to the ground. War Priest Charon completes
the cosmological circles within the Gnostic’s Ophite Diagrams, divining Leviathan’s
resting place.

-- 6 of 104 --

3
INTRODUCTION 	4
The Carcass Front ............................................................................... 4
A VISION OF LEVIATHAN 	6
The Proclamation of Blessed Bartolomeo ...................................... 9
The Blood-Summons of War Priest Charon ............................... 10
THE CARCASS FRONT 	12
Domus Demetrius ............................................................................ 12
The Altar of Leviathan ..................................................................... 14
The Steel Necropolis ........................................................................ 16
The Ruins of Nineveh Novus ......................................................... 18
The Sword of God ............................................................................. 20
The Pillar of Jonah ............................................................................ 22
Baghras Fortress ................................................................................ 24
Rudolf ’s Folly .................................................................................... 25
The Carrion Coast ............................................................................ 26
The House of Pillars ......................................................................... 27
Kurd Dagh & the Pilgrims of Stone ............................................. 28
The Vivarium ..................................................................................... 29
FACTION LISTS & MERCENARIES 	31
The Faction Lists ............................................................................... 31
THE PROCESSION OF THE SACRED AFFLICTION 	32
The Knights of Saint Lazarus ......................................................... 44
Procession of the Blessed Flock ...................................................... 45
HERETIC NAVAL RAIDERS 	46
The Drowned Choir ......................................................................... 56
The Leviathan Shoal ......................................................................... 57
MERCENARY 	59
SCENARIOS & TERRAIN 	60
Carcass Front Terrain Pieces ........................................................... 60
Carcass Front Scenarios ................................................................... 60
Scenario Generator ........................................................................... 60
Carcass Front Terrain Piece Rules ................................................. 61
I – The Ruins of Nineveh Novus ................................................... 62
II – Domus Demetrius .................................................................... 65
III – The Steel Necropolis ............................................................... 68
IV – The Sword of God ................................................................... 70
V – The Altar of Leviathan ............................................................. 72
Random Scenario Generator .......................................................... 74
CAMPAIGNS ON THE CARCASS FRONT 	78
New Patrons ....................................................................................... 78
THE CARCASS FRONT CAMPAIGN 	80
Campaign Overview ........................................................................ 80
The Campaign Map .......................................................................... 80
Resources ............................................................................................ 80
The Campaign Tracker .................................................................... 80
The Vision Cards .............................................................................. 81
Beginning the Campaign ................................................................ 82
Carcass Front Campaign Games ................................................... 82
Campaign Phase ................................................................................ 83
Rudolph’s Folly .................................................................................. 86
Outpost Step ...................................................................................... 87
Winning the Campaign ................................................................... 87
THE PATH TO LEVIATHAN CAMPAIGN 	88
Scenarios ............................................................................................. 89
Campaign Conclusions ................................................................... 90
CARCASS FRONT EXPLORATION TABLES 	91
CREDITS 	96
ConTenTs

-- 7 of 104 --

4	Introduction
inTroDUCTion
The Carcass Front
Carcass Front is a starter set and supplement for Trench Crusade
with models, new Faction lists, scenarios, and two whole new
campaigns for the game.
The Carcass Front is the name given to the lands that lie to the
north of New Antioch. Once ruled by the ancient kingdoms of the
eastern Mediterranean, bloody wars have been fought here between
the Faithful and the Fallen since the Gate of Hell appeared in 1099.
These battles have reduced the region to a devastated wilderness,
pockmarked with craters, criss-crossed with abandoned trench lines
and littered with heaps of fly-ridden corpses. Never has a land been
more aptly named.
Although the main battlelines have moved southwards towards
New Antioch, units from both sides continue to scout deep into the
Carcass Front, establishing strongholds and exploring the region in
a bid to discover its hidden secrets. Skirmishes and bloody firefights
take place wherever soldiers encounter each other, all the way
from the Carrion Coast in the west to the Iron Wall of the Great
Sultanate in the east. Your warband has been called upon to venture
into this war-torn land, where it will either gain everlasting glory or
suffer ignominious defeat.
USING THIS RULEBOOK
As well as this book, in the Carcass Front box you will find two
complete Warbands, a selection of terrain pieces, dice and rulers, a
set of introductory rules for newcomers to Trench Crusade, maps,
roster sheets, cards and score pads for use with campaigns. This
book explains how you can use all of these things.
In the first section there is a timeline of the history of the Carcass
Front, descriptions of important strategic locations in the region,
and biographies of some of the most important leaders who are
currently carrying out operations in the area. This will give you a
good overview of the geography of the Carcass Front and who is
fighting there.
Following that are two new Faction Lists: one for Procession of the
Sacred Affliction Warbands, and one for Heretic Naval Raiders.
Both of these Warbands first appeared as Warband Variants in the
Trench Crusade Rulebook, but have been upgraded to fully fledged
Warbands here. Each Warband has new options and Battlekit, as
well as several new Warband Variants of their own. The models that
come with Carcass Front are from these two Warbands, so you can
start using them straight away.
Next, you will find rules for the terrain pieces included with Carcass
Front, together with five new scenarios set in the region. The terrain
pieces are used in several of the scenarios, but can also be used in
any game that you play, whether it is set in the Carcass Front or
not. The new scenarios are designed for experienced players, and
will provide a real challenge for even the most hardened Trench
Crusade Warbands.
The final section of the book brings new Patrons for campaigns
using the rules from the Trench Crusade Rulebook, and introduces
two new types of campaign to play. The first modifies the standard
campaign rules so you can use the map of the Carcass Front that
is included in this box. This means that as well as fighting battles
against the other players, you will get a chance to explore the Carcass
Front, establish outposts in the region, and gain access to valuable
resources that will help you in future battles that you fight. The map-
based campaign also includes a new scoring system to determine the
ultimate victor, which allows players to employ different strategies
to win the campaign.
The second new campaign is a narrative-style campaign called The
Path to Leviathan. Leviathan was a monstrous creature that was
defeated and cast down into the Carcass Front many centuries
ago. However, although defeated, Leviathan lies only dormant,
and the narrative campaign is based on the efforts of two opposing
Warbands to search the Carcass Front for the artefacts they need
to either awaken Leviathan, or to completely destroy the creature
and feast upon its flesh. The Path to Leviathan narrative campaign
is designed for two players, who will play through the five scenarios
from the Carcass Front book in a specific sequence, one scenario
after the other, leading up to a furious final battle. The outcome of
each game played will affect the ones that follow it, so the chances
of victory in the final battle will be influenced by how well each
player has done in the battles that led up to it.
NEW PLAYERS START HERE
The Carcass Front Campaign box is not only full of new and
exciting content for existing players of Trench Crusade, but it is also
an excellent place to start playing the game if you have little or no
experience. Opening this big box of plastic and text can be a little
intimidating if you’re new to the hobby. Don’t worry – this section
is here to guide you through your very first steps into the world of
Trench Crusade and tabletop wargaming.
The most important thing to know is that, generally, tabletop
wargames involve two players building and painting amazingly
detailed plastic models, and then making them fight each other by
moving them around a battlefield and rolling dice. Carcass Front
has two different groups of models for you to use, known in Trench
Crusade as “Warbands”.
In this book you will come across two symbols, ducats (👑) and
Glory Points (☼). The cost to recruit a model or buy Battlekit
will usually be shown in 👑. Some rarer types of models and pieces
of Battlekit cost ☼ instead of 👑. In the Carcass Front campaign
you will encounter another symbol, 🏅, that symbol stands for
the Campaign Victory Points that are used to track your progress
through the campaign.
WARBANDS
The two Warbands in this box are the Procession of the Sacred
Affliction, faithful fanatics of the Lord, and the Heretic Naval
Raiders, twisted and skilled soldiers who serve the forces of Hell.
You can find out more about the history and background of these
Warbands in the Faction Lists section of this book.

-- 8 of 104 --

5	Introduction
Building Your Models
Before you can play you will need to put together the models
provided with Carcass Front. To do this, you will need a sharp craft
knife or a pair of clippers, and polystyrene cement (also known as
plastic glue). Then carefully cut and glue some models together,
following the instructions on the included assembly guide. You
should aim to have enough models for two Warbands, and a set of
terrain pieces for them to fight around.
Choosing a Warband
At its simplest level, Trench Crusade is a two-player game, so in
order to play you will need to find an opponent, and then each of
you should choose one of the Warbands to play. To help with this,
Carcass Front includes two introductory Warband Sheets, one for
the Procession of the Sacred Affliction and the other for the Heretic
Naval Raiders.
PREPARING TO PLAY
Once you have chosen your Warbands, you should be ready to
play. To do so you will need a playing area about 30” across and
36” wide – a typical dining table is ideal. Set up the terrain pieces
and the models in the Warbands you have chosen following the
guidance described in the introductory scenario called The World is
Burning in the Quickstart Rules Sheet. Then you can start playing
by reading through the core rules in the Quickstart Rules Sheet,
referring to the sample list for your Warband when you need to find
any information about a model in your Warband, such as how far
they can move and what weapons they are armed with. If you take
your time and read the rules carefully at each step, you will quickly
learn how to play, and after a turn or two you will hardly need to
refer to the Quickstart Rules Sheet at all.
Good luck – and may all your Success Rolls be Criticals!
TRENCH CRUSADE RULES
To play, you will also need a set of game rules. A Quickstart Rules
Sheet is included in this box to get you started. The full rules for
Trench Crusade are available both as a set of digital files (the Trench
Crusade Digital Rulebook and Warbands of Trench Crusade) that
can be downloaded for free from the Trench Crusade website, or as
a lavish printed book (the Trench Crusade Rulebook) that can be
purchased from retailers that carry the Trench Crusade range. Any
reference in this set to a rule from the Trench Crusade Rulebook
can be looked up in either version of the full rules. Note that the
Digital Rulebook is a living rulebook, updated whenever needed,
so will have the very latest version of the rules.
MF

-- 9 of 104 --

A Vision of Leviathan	6

-- 10 of 104 --

A Vision of Leviathan	7

-- 11 of 104 --

A Vision of Leviathan	8
MF

-- 12 of 104 --

A Vision of Leviathan	9
The Proclamation of Blessed Bartolomeo
In the darkness of eternity have I seen Leviathan,
A great beast, as kin to the Serpent of Eden.
I beheld the Seven Golden Stars fall and the Lord’s fetters crumble.
At death’s threshold I dreamed it, but in life shall I smite it.
To feast on its flesh and mantle my shoulders in the brazen shields of its hide.
Once it served the Lord, but its pride and greed grew too great.
Envy calls its name and one of Hell-Blood Iron answers.
We are chosen, we are few, but we are mighty.
The Afflicted Ones they call us, clothed in rags, wretched and mad,
But we alone know the truth of suffering.
All that was borne by our Saviour shall be ours to bear.
His pain, his love, his joy, and, aye, his ascent to Heaven.
Proclaim this among the nations of Earth.
Prepare for war! Rouse the warriors!
Let all the Faithful draw near and fight.
Praise be to the Lord, who readies our souls for death.
He is our wrathful God, our master and deliverer.
He is our shining shield, in whom we take refuge,
And who crushes those before us.
We are but a single breath; our days like fleeting shadows.
Yet we are many; strong and courageous!
We fear not the hosts of Hell, for the Lord is with us!
Together we shall trample our enemy into the mud of the Carrion Coast.
Together we will put the enemy hosts to flight.
Our zeal shall smite the sea and burn it with righteous wrath.
Our guns shall send forth lightning and scatter the demons.
Our millstones and clubs will break their bones and drown them.
Though the foe be scorned and mighty,
There will be no giving way before their hatred,
No going into captivity.
For we are the Afflicted,
And we shall not break, for the Lord is our strength.
Where we fight, the lies of the Heretic shall wither.
Where we suffer, God will be glorified,
And Leviathan shall meet its doom.

-- 13 of 104 --

A Vision of Leviathan	10
The Blood-Summons of War Priest Charon
Loose the cry of war-spilled blood! Let it spurt and fill thy throat.
Taste its bitter iron, the fading life and horror of Judgement.
We stand at the abyss and the weak fall by the wayside,
Crushed beneath the boots, boots, boots of our pitiless march.
Cast off chains of restraint, of remorse, of pity.
War demands degradations and wantonness beyond measure.
The Faithful quail before us, for we are the storm of blades and bullets,
And the Tyrant of Heaven trembles before its fury.
Shat into this world as mewling newborns, we reclaim our power,
No longer cowed supplicants, enslaved by dogma and lies.
We wrest ultimate power from God’s palsied hands.
On wings of blooded iron we become angels of retribution,
Wrathful, blood-soaked, massacre-makers.
Fire and Fear go before us, blackening Land and choking Heaven.
With clawed hands at unworthy necks,
We burn air from lungs, tear hearts from chests.
The faith of our foe counts on a saviour from above,
But we neither need nor desire saving.
Our fates lie in our own sin-stained hands,
For what are we but founts of joyous wickedness?
Once I lived on my knees, gazing up in fear,
But now arisen, all look upon me as terror itself,
As they shall witness you and our mighty works.
A prize beyond measure lies before us, demon-kin of Elder Days,
Wrought by a heedless creator and cast down for the sin of existence.
It lies forgotten beneath the red oceans, chained and eager
To submit to my Will, for who but I can claim such power?
We shriek our sermons of swords and unleash Hell.
The Chaos Beast shall be yoked with incense and iron.
Our barbs and hooks shall goad it to the Iron City of Dis.
Its bellow shall shake the walls, its fiery breath make molten its gates.
Neither blade nor bolt from blackened keep shall trouble its hide.
No curse of demon, dervish, or diabolique shall it deem troublesome.
Only the greatest souls will sate its hunger,
And in its feasting will I rise unchallenged.
A Master of Death. A Lord of Hell.

-- 14 of 104 --

A Vision of Leviathan	11
MF

-- 15 of 104 --

The Carcass Front	12
Domus Demetrius
Until the latter years of the sixteenth century, the corpses of the
fallen were mostly left unclaimed on the blood-soaked soil where
they fell, but this changed when it became evident that the Heretic
Legions were expending great effort to claim the bodies of those
sworn to the Church. The Synod of Strategic Prophecy concluded
they were being transported to Hell for purposes too hideous to
contemplate, and thus the Council of Saints was petitioned to
send one of the legendary Paladins into Hell itself to discover what
unholy perversions were afoot. It is said that Paladin Gérin fought
his way down through the Inferno to the very gates of Dis before
returning to the Castel Sant’Angelo to report his findings. What he
said has never been recorded, but soon after the Demetrian Order
of Reclamation was instituted to recover as many bodies as possible
from the front lines.
These bodies were transported along what became known as
“Corpse Rails”, thanks to the viscous trails of bodily fluids that
indicated the passing of such deathly rolling stock. Given the
ferocity of the fighting, the smaller depots were soon overwhelmed
and a far larger structure was constructed in 1809 to house and
process the dead: the Domus Demetrius. Known colloquially as
the “Body Barn”, it is a vast, grimly industrial structure constructed
over the ruins of an ancient fortress of the Templar Knights in the
Amanus Mountains, which in turn had been built upon a Byzantine
fortress that had been razed by the Great Seljuk Empire prior to the
opening of the Jerusalem Hellgate.
The Domus Demetrius is a sprawling complex of colossal iron-
framed structures filled with corpse-cranes, row upon row of
soaring embalming silos, and vast storage bays of coffins and body
bags. When the bodies of the fallen arrive, they enter via the Great
Exonarthex, which contains the towering Ciborium Demetrius,
a columned structure said to contain the earthly remains of Saint
Demetrius, one of the many martial saints who watch over fallen
The Carcass Front	12

-- 16 of 104 --

The Carcass Front	13
soldiers. A perpetual rain drizzles from the underside of the
Ciborium – it may just be powerful disinfecting solutions, but the
potent reek of myrrh leads many to believe it is the body of the
saint purifying those who pass beneath him in preparation for their
onward journey to Heaven. Within the structure, the fallen are
treated with great reverence by the Demetrian Monks, who recite
the words of the Corpus Benedictionis to render them unusable by
Hell. When the bodies complete their purifying journey, they are
shipped out to the corpse caves of Crete in rusted hulks that are
frequently sunk before reaching their destination.
In recent years, as the war against Hell has intensified, the resources
needed to maintain the Domus Demetrius have largely been
diverted elsewhere. Although the Corpse Rails still run, bringing a
never-ending supply of the dead, the ability of the monks to process
them has fallen sharply, to the point where the growing mounds
of corpses are like unto mountains themselves, the largest of which
press against the structure’s roof, many hundreds of yards above the
blood-slick tiles. Rumours persist that voracious packs of carrion
feeders have penetrated the forgotten undercrofts of the ancient
ruins upon which the facility was built, tunnelling up into the heart
of the corpse mountains to slowly devour the fallen from within.
The Demetrian Monks vehemently deny this, pointing to the
immovable iron doors bearing archaic sigils of the Sultanate that
seal the catacombs. What lies beyond these portals is unknown, but
none stationed here are in any hurry to find out.
The Carcass Front 	13
AD

-- 17 of 104 --

The Carcass Front	14
In 1865, the Heraklion earthquake struck the northern coast
of Crete, and its devastating shockwaves were felt all across the
hellfront of Anatolia, the Levant, and North Africa, wiping
hundreds of settlements from the map in a single night of terror.
Hundred-foot high waves surged across the Mediterranean,
causing untold devastation before being funnelled into the Gulf
of Alexandretta, where, by the time it drew near the town of
Dorythol, the compressed tidal wave was a thousand feet high. Its
people gathered on the shore to witness their onrushing doom,
praying for God to save them…
And then, a miracle.
The townsfolk watched in astonishment as the wave slowed and
eventually halted just half a mile from the shoreline, a titanic
wall of water held back by the power of the Almighty. The water
foamed and seethed like a beast denied its prey, and when the wave
retreated back to the deep ocean, a rocky landscape strewn with
half-devoured corpses and the debris of faraway lands was revealed.
On the exposed seabed, the people of Dorythol discovered an
ancient temple of such strange form and unnatural scale that most
would not dare approach for fear of their mortal souls. It lay canted
at a strange angle, ripped from unknown foundations and carried
on a great slab of greenish-black stone no quarryman could name.
Those reckless few who dared explore the ruins found a great
obelisk of the same strange stone that resembled a serrated tooth,
but one of such scale that it could not possibly be from anything
living. All could feel the power emanating from the stone and fell
to their knees before what must surely be a gift from God. Before
the waters returned, the obelisk was dragged from the temple and
set atop a high hilltop in the craggy heights behind the town. It
became known as the Altar of Leviathan, a holy wonder that was
never spoken of in the presence of outsiders.
The Altar of Leviathan
The Carcass Front	14

-- 18 of 104 --

The Carcass Front	15
In the years that followed, no matter how the fighting against
Hell waxed and waned, Dorythol was spared the fire and fury of
battle, with the forces of the Faithful and the Damned seemingly
all but blind to its presence. In thanks for this great mercy, votive
offerings were made at the foot of the altar: food and wine, gold
and livestock, for it seemed that the power that had saved them
from the tsunami was still potent and ever hungry. But in 1871 AD,
the Heretic submarine, Congregant of Mammon, surfaced offshore,
and armoured killers marched towards the town with murder in
their hearts. In desperation, the townsfolk once again turned to the
altar, this time offering the most profane sacrifices of their own flesh
and blood in return for salvation. No one speaks of that night now,
but when the submarine’s carcass was later discovered drifting off
the easternmost tip of Cyprus, it was little more than a gutted hulk,
its crew missing and its internal bulkheads painted crimson with
their blood.
Today, Dorythol still stands untouched by the horrors of war, and,
as they have done on the darkest night of each year, the townsfolk
lay yet another unspeakable sacrifice upon the altar before hastily
retreating to their homes, where every door is painted with strange
symbols none can remember learning and sealed fast with iron
nails. On that dreadful night, strange fogs wreath the town and the
muffled tread of heavy, wet footfalls can be heard on the cobbles
outside. Fearful men and women cower by their cold hearths,
hoping those beyond will keep walking, but with every sunrise, one
home stands empty, the living souls who once occupied it taken by
unknown captors and never seen again.
The Carcass Front 	15
AD

-- 19 of 104 --

The Carcass Front	16
In the Year of the Broken Trinity, the forces of Hell unleashed a
full-scale assault on the Levant. While endless waves of infantry
attacked the fortifications west of Aleppo, an armoured spearhead
hooked around Aintab and pushed south through the Guillaume
Gap. The fortress of Roche Guillaume itself was rendered impotent
by an unending barrage of infernal bombs hurled by infiltrating
Artillery Witches from the east and Sea Hags from the west. The
strongholds of Bathemolin and Koumith fared little better, razed
by goetic storms as the main force smashed through the Trapesac
and Yaghra defence zones. With the road to New Antioch wide
open, the Heretic spearhead angled eastwards to skirt the Lake of
Antioch, a major site of ongoing hydroelectric development.
The nascent airfleets of the Faithful pounded the armoured column
day and night, but their losses were crippling and the damage
inflicted was minimal. Nothing could stop the Heretic advance,
but the Duke of New Antioch conceived a last-ditch plan to save
the city, one that would cost the Faithful dearly, but offered the
only hope of halting the invaders. A great call to arms was raised,
promising that any who fought to save New Antioch would have
all their sins forgiven, and within the day, a numberless host of
pilgrims marched out beneath a thousand reliquary banners,
chanting the Duke’s name.
The two forces clashed just north of the Iron Bridge, but the
pilgrims could not hope to prevail against such heavy armour. It had
been hopeless folly to imagine any other outcome, but the Duke had
not intended them to be victorious, only to pin the enemy in place
by choking their tracks with the flesh and blood of their own bodies.
As the armoured assault ground to a halt, engineers at the Patricius
Dam on the Lake of Antioch destroyed the great structure and sent
millions of gallons of water cascading toward the flatlands. Both
pilgrim and heretic alike were drowned in the flood, or dragged
down into the sucking nightmare of mud the plains had become.
The Steel Necropolis
The Carcass Front	16

-- 20 of 104 --

The Carcass Front	17
In the wake of the deluge, the sky darkened with the return of the
rebuilt and rearmed squadrons of the Faithful.
Unable to escape the quagmire, the enemy tanks were bombed to
oblivion, leaving nothing but wreckage and a scene straight from
the nightmares of medieval prophets: a graveyard of twisted steel
and flesh, of fire-blackened bodies and fused skeletal remains.
With the Heretics defeated, efforts were made to clear the area
of unholy taint, but explosions of live ordnance and the curses
unleashed from blasphemous sigils etched into the hulls of the
wrecked tanks saw such efforts swiftly abandoned. Thus the area
was declared off-limits, and a great cruciform monument was raised
to commemorate the sacrifice of the fallen.
Yet there are many who risk life and sanity by covertly entering
this haunted landscape of rusted metal in search of rare materials,
weaponry, and fallen relics. Pilgrim cults drawn by the divine
diesel fumes roam the necropolis, chanting mechanical hymnals
to a bellowing Tank God of iron and gasoline, grinding tracks and
shellfire. Even now, the Steel Necropolis is a place of horror, with
agonised faces visible beneath the vitrified mud and the lingering
death-screams of the slain drifting amid the maze of abandoned
hulks. It is also a place of terrible danger, for thousands of
unexploded shells yet remain undiscovered, silently ticking toward
detonation. Even worse, the fallen do not rest easy here, and the
spirits of the dead who burned alive in their possessed steel coffins
are said to call out for rescue, only to slay those foolish enough to
answer. Even those who died in service of New Antioch are still
consumed by their need to drag those above to join them in the
mud below, heedless of whatever higher power they serve.
The Carcass Front 	17
AD

-- 21 of 104 --

The Carcass Front	18
Nineveh was once the largest city in the known world, the seat of
bloodthirsty Assyrian emperors, and a place famed for its wretched
wickedness. The city’s doom had been foretold by the Prophet
Saints Jonah, Nahum, and Zephaniah, the latter of whom warned
that God would “stretch out his hand against the north, destroy
Assyria, and make Nineveh as dry as the wilderness.”
Many chose to escape this foretold destruction by fleeing westward
to settle in the ruins of a forgotten city north-west of Aleppo.
Foremost among these refugees were dangerously obsessed scholars
who had unlocked the mystic tablets of King Solomon and who
secretly bore grimoires and cuneiform tablets of dark magic first
carved in ancient Mesopotamia. In their arrogance, they saw
themselves as the spiritual heirs of the ancient mages of Egypt who
had fled before Alexander the Great’s invading hosts – heedless that
the very texts they revered were the source of God’s coming wrath.
With the power of hermetic sorceries, the scholars gradually rebuilt
the ruins into a subterranean city they dubbed Nineveh Novus.
They wove incantations to conceal their city behind flesh-scouring
sandstorms, and yoked demons of the desert to slay any who came
near, certain this would protect them from both the wrath of
the Almighty and the covetous eyes of kings. Over the following
centuries, it appeared they were correct, and vast libraries were built
to contain the wealth of knowledge that their communications with
higher beings revealed. Many repositories were filled with mystic
artifacts captured by the Knights of Solomon, a martial order
established to retrieve objects of occult significance by any means
necessary and return them to Nineveh Novus.
Arcane powers had kept the sorcerers of the desert hidden for over
a millennia, but some dooms are inevitable and inescapable. In their
hubristic quest to unlock the power of the divine, the sorcerers had
profaned both the angelic and the demonic in an affront to both
The Ruins of Nineveh Novus
The Carcass Front	18

-- 22 of 104 --

The Carcass Front	19
Heaven and Hell, and such insults can never be forgiven. When the
end came to Nineveh Novus, it arrived in a single night of screaming
terror in 1272 AD, when the wrath of both kingdoms struck with
all the fury unleashed on Sodom, Tyre, and Samaria combined.
Nineveh Novus was burned from above and below for seventy-two
days, and barely a single soul survived the conflagration.
Warding sorceries woven into the rock allowed the city itself
to survive, though the seismic wrath of the earth expelled
many of its sunken chambers back up to the pitiless light of the
surface. Yet much of what its deluded scholars illuminated and
its knights recovered endures in its shattered libraries and half-
buried reliquaries. Unholy monsters, brought into being by foul
incantations and experimented upon by the scholars, are said to
stalk its maze-like passageways, seeking vengeance on their former
torturers. A handful of the unnaturally long-lived scholars, driven
mad by their doom, still linger in the ruins, twisted into deranged
lunatics by the unleashed cataclysm. Beyond the dead city, the
demons of the desert still remain as vengeful djinn, and to hear
their inhuman shrieks is to know that death is approaching.
Farther out, at the very edge of the desolation, the sniper stylites of
Saint Simeon watch over the ruins from atop their great spires, ready
to kill anything that seeks escape from below and to warn away any
who risk their mortal souls by approaching the cursed city. Despite
this, treasure seekers and questers after forbidden knowledge
have sometimes managed to evade the stylites’ vigilance to delve
deeper into the ruins in search of its secrets. Few ever return from
these foolish expeditions, and those who do are changed beyond
recognition by what they have seen beneath the sands.
The Carcass Front 	19
AD

-- 23 of 104 --

The Carcass Front	20
Long has the Iron Sultanate been famed for the power of its
artillery, from infantry jezzails and midfa fire-lances, all the way to
the mighty basilic bombards mounted on the Iron Wall itself. The
alchemagi ceaselessly work alongside the Jabirean alchemists and
metallurgists from the Foundry of Watered Steel to craft ever more
lethal weapons to obliterate the followers of the great Shaytan. By
comparison, the artillery of New Antioch is considered functional
at best, mass-produced cannons churned out in unclean factories
without the blessings of the Creator of the Universe placed upon
them. That such weapons function at all is considered a minor
miracle by the alchemagi.
Following the discovery of orichalcum steel in the sixteenth
century, the alchemagi petitioned the Sultan to pursue closer
relations with Antioch, for they much desired access to its
alchemical formulae. The Sultan refused, believing that the Church
would demand too much in return, so the alchemagi made secret
pacts with the Assassins of Alamut to steal the secret of orichalcum
from the fortress-monastery of Velehrad.
Only one of the Secret Knives returned, but their prize allowed
the alchemagi to craft a cannon of terrible power, one they proudly
named Sayf Allah, the Sword of God. Not only was it a fearsome
weapon of destruction, it was also a thing of beauty. Its mighty
barrel rippled with the water patterns of Damascus, bound by the
inlaid silver filigree of Mosulian artisans, and inlaid with the Seals
of Solomon in golden calligraphy. The alchemagi proudly unveiled
the Sword of God, believing they would be richly rewarded for
their efforts, but the Sultan was angered at their disobedience,
and decreed that the weapon would be presented to the Duke of
Antioch as recompense for the theft of orichalcum’s secrets.
A hundred Lions of Jabir dragged the mighty weapon to Antioch
with an escort of the Sultan’s own janissaries, where the Duke
The Sword of God
The Carcass Front	20

-- 24 of 104 --

The Carcass Front	21
received the weapon with great humility and gratitude. The high
clerics of the Church, however, baulked at employing a weapon
crafted by artisans of a rival faith and decreed that the weapon
could not be set amid the anchorite battle shrines of the city’s
walls. Thus the Duke commanded that the Sword of God be taken
west, to the Gulf of Alexandretta, where it was set upon a firing
plinth above Port Bonnel. Despite the Church’s reservations, the
Sword of God proved its worth over the years, destroying the
Heretic warships Blood Harvest and Noctifer, then sinking the
capital ship, Belphegor.
For over two hundred years, the weapon was maintained and
improved with developing technologies by emissaries from the House
of Wisdom, eventually being set on newly developed heavy-gauge
rail tracks running between its original plinth and the Pillar of Jonah,
to better defend the coast against the Heretic Navy. But as relations
soured between the rulers of New Antioch and the Sultanate, its
engineers were withdrawn, and without their specialised knowledge,
the Sword of God fell into disuse and disrepair.
Numerous pilgrim cults have sprung up around the gun, some
praying it will turn its wrath upon the enemies of God once again,
others seeking to topple it as a blasphemous idol. In the decades
since its abandonment, the Sword of God has changed hands
between these warring cults many times, and Naval Raiders from
the Heretic sea-fortress of Gibraltar have sought to capture it six
times. Even though the Faithful can no longer fire the gun, it is still
defended, as the thought of it falling into the hands of Tartarus’s
smiths is too terrible to countenance. Storms have since buried the
Sword of God, but it remains inviolate beneath the sands, ready to
deliver death to the forces of Jahannam once more.
The Carcass Front 	21
AD

-- 25 of 104 --

The Carcass Front	22
The Year of Broken Trinity saw total war unleashed upon the Levant,
and though the Faithful were able to stave off disaster, it was only at
terrible cost. Holding the Levant was critical to the world’s survival,
and understanding that it was wiser to fight Hell far from their own
shores, the Papal States spent years constructing an immense convoy
fleet and assembling vast stockpiles of war materials.
The convoy launched amid great ceremony, and its flagship,
Immacolata, was captained by the Supreme Pontiff, Pope Leo XIII,
himself aided by his Communicant bodyguard, May-He-Never-
Know-The-Touch-Of-Neither-Blade-Nor-Bullet. The sheer scale
of the resupply efforts had not gone unnoticed, however, and no
sooner had the convoy set sail than it came under attack from the
Heretic wolfpacks. Under Leo XIII’s bold command, the convoy
successfully fought its way eastwards, fending off every attack until
passing the Cyprian Gate.
Thus far, raids had come from surface ships, but scores of Heretic
submarines lay in wait just off the Alexandretta coastline. Hundreds
of hag-torpedoes struck the convoy, sinking dozens of ships
in the first moments. Yet more followed and the slaughter was
unimaginable. Within the hour, every vessel in the fleet had been
sunk or crippled, with the survivors gunned down as they clung to
the burning wreckage. Immacolata was captured by Naval Raiders
and the Pope taken prisoner aboard the submarine Livyatan. The
shattered remains of the Papal fleet washed up along the northern
coast around Alexandretta, creating a graveyard of wrecked ships
that became known as the Carrion Coast.
After three days and three nights, the crippled Livyatan surfaced
north of Alexandretta at the Pillar of Jonah, an abandoned airship
lighthouse of the Aeronautica Pontificia. Just before it sank to its
final doom, a gigantic figure disembarked, clad in the blood-soaked
remains of papal vestments stitched together in a crude cassock. He
The Pillar of Jonah
The Carcass Front	22

-- 26 of 104 --

The Carcass Front	23
bore a colossal recoilless anti-submarine gun ripped from the deck
of the Livyatan across one broad shoulder and marched through the
surge tide of wrecks to the shore, for this was May-He-Never-Know-
The-Touch-Of-Neither-Blade-Nor-Bullet, the only survivor of the
Immacolata. His teeth were red with holy blood, for he had, under
instructions from Leo XIII, devoured his master to prevent the
heretics from torturing him or, worse, twisting him to the cause of
evil. The holy flesh of the Pope melded with the divine blood of the
Communicant to fuse them into a singular being of immense power
and schizophrenic piety, a being who now went by the name Never-
Know. He had fought his way free of captivity and slaughtered the
crew of Livyatan, his mind afire with the clamour of the heavenly
choir and the all too mortal thoughts of the consumed Pope.
Never-Know climbed the Pillar of Jonah and repaired its beacon,
before beginning his lonely vigil watching over the sacred remains
of his lost fleet. Having already elected a new Pope, the Holy Curia
no longer considered Leo XIII the Supreme Pontiff, but as his
essence lived on in the flesh of a sacred Communicant they were
unable to completely forsake what Never-Know had become. So the
Aeronautica Pontificia sends regular airships laden with the supplies
needed to keep the lighthouse functional as well as the meagre
necessities required to maintain the Communicant’s body. Though
nearly a decade has passed since the destruction of the supply fleet,
Never-Know still vigorously defends the beacon, using ordnance
provided by the Papal States to lace the lands around his lighthouse
with lethal traps and his modified anti-materiel rifle to destroy any
who approach without the proper obeisances and catechisms.
The Carcass Front 	23
TE

-- 27 of 104 --

The Carcass Front	24
Of the great passes that allow passage over the Amanus Mountains,
none is more vital than the Syrian Gate. Whoever controls this pass
dictates the course of the war for the Levant, so it is no wonder
that so much blood has been shed attempting to hold it over the
centuries. The warriors of Persia, Macedon, and Rome have all
fought to control it, and some say that when the stars are in strange
alignment, the sound of clashing steel and cries in unknown
languages echo from the rocky sides of the pass. The proscribed
writings of Aristotle tell that in the wake of the Battle of Issus,
whilst Alexander the Great and his bodyguards pursued Darius and
his fleeing host into the pass, they came upon a depthless ravine
filled with the bloodless corpses of ten thousand Persians. Who or
what had slaughtered them so foully was never discovered and all
who saw that hideous sight never spoke of it again.
Not until 968 AD, by which date such tales had long been
dismissed as hyperbole by the ancient philosopher, were the first
permanent fortifications raised. Though initially little more than
a fortified watchtower, it quickly grew in strength and scale,
becoming the last refuge of the disgraced Templar Knights who had
loosed Hell upon the world. When the heretic knights were finally
dragged out, they were beheaded and their skulls mortared into the
castle’s highest tower, facing the Jerusalem Hellgate, to forever bear
witness to what their heresy had unleashed.
In the centuries since, the fortress has seen countless sieges and been
rebuilt numerous times by Heretics and Faithful alike, with great
walls of dark stone and towers now spanning the entire width of the
pass. Though reconsecrated after each expulsion of Heretic forces,
some stains are impossible to entirely remove, and many stationed
within the bleak fastness speak of it as a lodestone for slaughter, a
cursed place that draws death like moths to a flame. Most dismiss
such fearful speculation, correctly noting that mountain passes have
always been the sites of fierce battles. Nevertheless, it is impossible
to deny the ghastly chill that settles in the heart when walking the
ramparts of Baghras at night, or to ignore the keening lamentations
heard when the wind blows cold.
The last siege was in 1909, when thirty thousand Trench Pilgrims
under the banner of a previously unknown War Prophet known
only as the Risen stormed Baghras in a single, overwhelming
assault. Upon the raising of the cross, vast pyres were set throughout
the fortress as the Heretic corpses were burned, and the smoke
was said to be visible from the Iron Wall itself. When Duke
Constantine XI of New Antioch dispatched Lord Mortimer of
the Knights Pursuivant and five thousand soldiers to take over the
defence of the fortress, they found the gates barred against them.
An emissary of the Risen claimed Baghras for the Pilgrims of the
Lazarine Ascension, and warned that any attempt to dislodge them
would be regarded as an act of heresy.
Having expected the fortress to be surrendered (and without a
siege train), Lord Mortimer had little choice but to withdraw.
Since then, Baghras has remained under the control of the Risen,
who refuse all entreaties from New Antioch, yet staunchly defends
its walls against the Heretic legions. Agents of the Church have
sought in vain to discover the Risen’s true identity, and thus Duke
Constantine is faced with the unpalatable prospect of a vital flank
held by an “ally” of unknown provenance who obeys no orders but
those that he claims come from the Lord of Heaven.
Baghras Fortress
The Carcass Front	24
MB

-- 28 of 104 --

The Carcass Front	25
The reign of the Holy Roman Emperor, Rudolf II, was one of great
volatility, with the erratic monarch accused of instigating needless
wars and delving into proscribed occult sciences. His castle was a
menagerie of arcane devices, outlandish hybrids purchased from
Mendelist labs, and Takwin beasts procured from the House of
Wisdom. His most notorious act followed the arrival of the exiled
prophet, Nostradamus, in 1565. The astrologer wove a tale of
machines able to soar the skies on man-made wings, so the young
Emperor tasked his military engineers to build a complex whereby
such machines could take to the air and return to terra firma.
This base was built in the foothills of the Šumava Mountains,
and consisted of great stretches of flat stonework and enormous
structures to house the sky-craft. Inventors came from all across the
world to craft the machines that the Emperor desired, but none
could fly for more than a few seconds. As the complex grew ever
more elaborate, it almost bankrupted the House of Hapsburg,
becoming known as Rudolf ’s Folly, before a great and terrible storm
from the east erased it from existence in 1612.
Only centuries later, in 1872, when the port-city of Rijeka came
under attack from the construct-hordes of Eligos was its existence
recalled. With that city’s fall, a storm blew out of the Šumava Moun-
tains and the droning sound of powerful engines filled the skies. Hun-
dreds of winged shapes were seen moving through the clouds towards
the front, and the southern horizon lit up with fiery bombardments.
When the storm abated, the Heretic advance had been blunted long
enough for the Faithful to muster strength enough to hold the line.
Church leaders proclaimed a miracle, decreeing that the winged
shapes glimpsed high in the clouds were angels sent by the Lord, but
reports from towns and villages near where Rudolf ’s Folly once stood
spoke of airmen wearing archaic clothing and outlandish machines
that could take to the air. When Church officials investigated these
claims, they found no sign of any such men or machines.
Twenty-two years later, a clue emerged when the airfleets
bombarding the Heretic armoured column advancing through the
Guillaume Gap found themselves aided by craft bearing antiquated
Hapsburg heraldry. Field agents of the Church, directed by
Observers of the Synod, discovered a hitherto unknown airfield in
a secluded valley near Targoviste and dispatched soldiers to secure
it. When the regiments arrived, they found no trace of an airfield,
only the faint echo of engines and the fading reek of diesel fumes.
In the years since, rumours of this mysterious airbase have spread
throughout the Levant, with no rhyme or reason discernible in its
disappearances and reappearances. In the current year of the Lord,
scattered reports claim that unsanctioned aircraft or airships have
been sighted operating out of the northern Amanus Mountains, but
the veracity of this is unconfirmed.
Just as mysterious as the airfield itself is who leads these sky-pirates.
Some speak of a disaffected noble of Lower Silesia known as the
Bloody Baron, whilst others claim he is not an individual, but a
title passed from one commander to another. Yet others speak of
a Mendelist being crafted by Rudolf II himself, who has sworn to
fulfil the vanished Emperor’s belief in Nostradamus’s prophecy.
Whoever leads these flyers, one thing is clear: they are a law unto
themselves, for they raid settlements, ground convoys, and supply
airships belonging to the nobles of Europa for ducats and supplies.
Such actions merit death and excommunication, but too many of
the Faithful have been saved from disaster when the Baron’s flying
machines dive from the clouds to lay waste to Heretics for the
Church to pursue this with any great vigour.
Rudolf’s Folly
The Carcass Front 	25
MB

-- 29 of 104 --

The Carcass Front	26
When the Papal fleet was ambushed and sunk in the Year of
Broken Trinity, the wreckage was swept ashore on the Alexandretta
coastline in a tangled mass of buckled keels and transverse ribs,
with fire-blackened plates of riveted steel hanging like flesh from
the bone. Amid the metal graveyard, the corpses of the soldiers
and sailors being transported to the Levant washed up on the
bloody beaches in their tens of thousands. The wrecks and remains
stretched for fifty miles, all the way from Paias in the north to the
pontoon bastions of Port Bonnel, far to the south.
The Duke of New Antioch dispatched a rescue force immediately
upon learning of the disaster, but they in turn were ambushed by
Heretic Naval Raiders lying in wait. In the months following the
sinking of the fleet, battles raged in shattered holds, in oil-saturated
engine rooms, and upon beaches whose sands were now irrevocably
stained red with martyrs’ blood. The fighting waxed and waned
before both sides eventually pulled back, leaving the endless broken
maze of wrecked ships to rust and moulder.
With the belligerents abandoning the coast, scavengers descended
to pick the bones of corpses and craft alike, murdering any survivors
and stealing what remained. All manner of the dispossessed and
reckless were drawn to the coastline in search of plunder, and
though the vessels broken on the beach had been picked clean,
many of those beneath the waves were still packed with preserved
riches, relics, and canned foodstuffs. To dive these waters was
unimaginably dangerous, for the fuel and oil carried by many of the
tankers had saturated the water and rendered it toxically corrosive
beyond imagining. To go below the surface required heavily
armoured diving suits and internal air supplies, for any cables and
pipes would soon dissolve in the caustic broth of the ocean.
Clustered upon and around the remains of ships, either grounded
on the red sands or tethered offshore by high-tensile hawser cables,
are drifting shanty towns ruled over by the Breaker King. This
gas-masked warlord of the wasteland took control of the wrecks by
virtue of being the most ruthless and bloodthirsty scavenger drawn
to the coast. By his word is life given or taken, and it is he alone
who allows passage through the wrecks or below the waters. From
his Engine Palace in the remains of the Immacolata, the Breaker
King reigns over his rusted iron kingdom, where anything is for sale
and life is worthless. Captured hellbeasts duel against mechanised
champions in spiked pits to the screams of baying crowds, and all
manner of treasures and trinkets gathered from the sunken wrecks
can be bought or bartered in the metal markets.
What lies beneath the waters of the Carrion Coast is said to
be more dangerous than any dare imagine, for there are tales of
imprisoned demons held in ward-chained coffins, unholy relics
earmarked for destruction, and millions of tons of unexploded
ordnance still lying on the polluted seabed. Aside from the
munitions, such tales are, of course, arrant nonsense, but that has
done little to dampen the relish with which the desperate folk of
the Carrion Coast plumb the nightmarish darkness of the waters.
One rumour that steadfastly refuses to die is that a nameless ship of
the Papal fleet was bearing a new form of bomb to New Antioch,
one with the power to burn entire nations. The Holy Curia denies
this, but the sheer number of aberrant births and unholy beasts
that mock God’s design that are washed up along the Alexandretta
coastline certainly suggests that something truly evil lurks in the
ocean’s depths.
The Carrion Coast
The Carcass Front	26
MF

-- 30 of 104 --

The Carcass Front	27
In the northern reaches of the Guillaume Gap sits the ancient
settlement of Zencirli, a city that has endured thanks to its
prominent location at the mouth of the Amanus Gates. It was here
that the Sufi mystic Jalāl al-Dīn Muhammad Rūmī founded his
renowned teaching monastery, the Bit-hilani. Known as the House
of Pillars, it was where intellectuals, poets, artists, and fellow mystics
would gather to debate matters of the temporal world and the nature
of the kingdoms divine and infernal. The records of their debates and
insights were incomparable, and the libraries of their wisdom were
consulted by the world’s foremost academics and theologians.
Even in the face of Hell’s assault on Earth, Rūmī and those who
came after him never faltered in the belief that humanity should
seek knowledge of tawhid, a oneness with God, which was lived
most fully through love. This philosophy was put to its ultimate
test when Beelzebub unleashed the Black Grail upon the world in
1346 and plagues beyond number ravaged the Earth for centuries.
Tens of thousands were dying every day, but as the mystics of
Zencirli recited Rūmī’s core mantra – that flame which, when it
blazes up, burns away everything except the Everlasting Beloved – a
great silver wall of fire sprang up around the city. Despite the vile
pestilence that ravaged the globe, the people of Zencirli were spared
thanks to their mentor’s teachings.
The Prince of Decay could not let such an affront go unchallenged,
and the Order of the Fly was eventually dispatched to raze the
House of Pillars and slay all within. Yet even the mightiest of his
followers could not cross the silver flames, but in the wake of the
Corpse Wars, a numberless horde of pox-ridden hounds, thralls,
and other foul beings obeyed a mournful summons to muster in
the Anatolian Hellfront. There, they formed a dirgeful host led by
the despairing Plague Knights who had served Yersinia Rex prior to
his destruction. Shunned even by their own kind, the fallen knights
sought only destruction and vengeance for their lost master.
This putrescent host of hate-filled plague knights led their horde
to the flame-ringed Zencirli, but the city was now defended by a
pilgrim procession of Anchorites drawn by prophecies of eternal
battle. The fighting around Zencirli was said to have lasted a full
year and, by its conclusion, both the plague host and the Anchorite
processional were all but wiped out. The city had been obliterated
and, although the House of Pillars remained, the wall of silver
flames had finally been extinguished. This, perhaps, was Beelzebub’s
greatest victory, for within that divine fire lay – according to those
few mystics who survived – a means of defeating the Black Grail.
Perhaps that was once true, perhaps not, but in the centuries since,
none of the scattered mystics who follow Rūmī’s teachings have
been able to recreate what their ancient forebears were able to
achieve through Tawhid.
In the centuries since, the House of Pillars has fallen into disrepair,
its glory days long passed and its holy founder all but forgotten.
When a Procession of the Sacred Affliction led by a zealot named
Blessed Bartolomeo arrived at the House of Pillars in 1913, the
few remaining mystics could only watch in horror as he tore their
libraries apart in search of something he named the Prophecies of
Leviathan. When Bartolomeo emerged, he ordered his followers
to set the House of Pillars aflame, burning all records of what he
discovered and turning hundreds of years of wisdom to ash. Leaving
the destroyed monastery, Bartolomeo led his pilgrims deeper into
the Carcass Front, where he proclaimed that he would confront
Leviathan and slay it in the name of Almighty God, no matter the
cost. Word of Bartolomeo’s crusade has reached the ears of the
Synod and New Antioch’s bishop, and though his proclamations
are publicly dismissed, some within the Church fear there may be
some truth to his visions and have privately begun investigations
into what he might have learned in the ruins of the House of Pillars.
The House of Pillars
The Carcass Front 	27
MB

-- 31 of 104 --

The Carcass Front	28
One of the highest peaks of the Taurus Mountains, located south of
Trebizond and within one of the north-western re-entrants of the
Iron Wall, is Mount Nemrut. Its peak has been a place of pilgrimage
since lost antiquity, with a host of towering statues built atop its
summit. The identities of those depicted there have long since been
lost, but the fact that the Iron Wall goes out of its way to exclude
the mountain is seen by many in the Church as proof that they were
once Christian saints.
As such, the mountain remained a site of pilgrimage for many of
the most hardline Pilgrim Processionals, who risked everything
to cross hundreds of miles of shell-cratered wasteland, corpse-
choked rivers, and furious battlefields to reach their destination.
That the vast majority of such pilgrimages end in death never
deterred others from undertaking this near-suicidal pilgrimage.
In 1729, when unsubstantiated rumours of an expansion to the
Iron Wall that would bring the mountain within the bounds of
the Sultanate reached New Antioch, a mania unlike anything since
the Fall of Byzantium gripped the Levant. Nearly half a million
pilgrims converged on New Antioch before beginning the long
march towards the sacred mountain to “save” the statues. They went
barefoot and brought no machinery or vehicles, arguing that those
who had first placed the great statues had none.
By the time they reached the mountain, a third of their number
were dead, but their fervour had only increased. Despite enduring
Heretic assaults day and night, their faith never wavered, and
when finally they reached the summit, the immense task of moving
the titanic statues began. Without mechanized equipment, the
labour was Herculean, near impossible, but the power of faith and
the strength of thousands proved enough. The pilgrims bore the
unimaginable weight of the statues from the summit down the
rocky slopes of the mountain – twelve statues, in an echo of the
twelve disciples. Thus began the Pilgrimage of Stone, the statues
borne on the backs of thousands of pilgrims across the nightmarish
landscape between them and New Antioch.
Many months and miles passed, with hundreds of pilgrims martyred
every day on their death march through the wilderness of razor wire,
shellfire, and relentless attacks from Heretics. The suffering only
increased their zeal, but when the ragged procession finally reached
the banks of the wide Orontes River, they found that all of the
bridges had been shelled into oblivion. A single pilgrim cried out
that by his flesh he would offer passage and dived from the bank,
and soon a flock of joyous pilgrims followed his example. The first
were swept away, but as hundreds, then thousands waded into the
water, the endless stream of bodies slowly dammed the river until a
bulwark of fully ten thousand souls choked its flow and allowed the
remaining pilgrims to cross into Faithful territory.
By the time the pilgrims reached the walls of Kyrrhos, over four
hundred thousand had died, but their long march was not yet done,
for they now ascended the nearby mountain of Kurd Dagh. There
they set all twelve of the great statues upon the summit overlooking
the plain of Antioch and then, their holy task complete, the
pilgrims lay down and died. In the centuries since, the statues have
witnessed the waxing and waning of the war against Hell, and the
mountain summit has seen some of the bitterest fighting of the
Great War – for it is said that should the Pilgrims of Stone, as the
statues have come to be known, fall, then so too shall the Earth
follow in their doom.
Kurd Dagh & the Pilgrims of Stone
The Carcass Front	28
MF

-- 32 of 104 --

The Carcass Front	29
Of all those who have aided the Faithful in holding against the
forces of Hell, few have been as vital as the Mendelist Order of
monks. Their ongoing research into blessed transubstantiation has
produced miracles made flesh, Communicants, and, most revered
of all, the holy Paladins. Despite this, some among the Church’s
more zealous factions see their work as hubristic tinkering with
God’s perfect design. Only the Mendelists are officially sanctioned
to produce such beings, but the demands of war mean the need for
Communicants far outstrips their ability to produce viable warriors.
To meet these demands, some pilgrim processions craft their own
Communicants in unsanctioned laboratories, hidden away from
interfering eyes. To create a Communicant requires blood and
flesh samples from one of the Meta-Christs, and such a singular
resource is almost impossibly difficult to obtain. Too often such
samples are fraudulent or tainted, and the volunteers who ingest
them die in agonising pain as their bodies are overtaken by rapid
and uncontrollable mutations. Those who ascend, however, become
hulking, superhuman creatures of immense strength who seem all
but immortal.
The Consecution of Saint Magnus Albertus was a pilgrim sect that
sought to attach itself to the Mendelists but, after ransacking the
sacred tombs of the Vatican City in search of holy flesh to present
to the monks, they were swiftly expelled from Rome. Setting out
for the Holy Land, the Consecution swelled their numbers by
absorbing other pilgrim processionals and yoking those with divine
insight into alchemical sciences to serve their fanatical purposes.
Deep in a forsaken gorge of the Guillaume Gap, in a region
rendered all but uninhabitable by gas bombs and living razor wire,
the Consecution raised a laboratory-temple known as the Vivarium
and commenced their Great Work. Here, they delved into the
alchemical labyrinth of meta-science, though their first creations
were twisted affronts to God, more akin to monsters crafted in the
lower circles of Hell than anything divine. Instead of destroying
such creatures, they released them into the wastelands surrounding
the lab, to provide another layer of protection from outsiders. Yet
with each experiment, the pilgrims learned something new, and
drew ever closer to what they hoped was the ultimate expression of
a Communicant – a Paladin of their very own, one unbound by the
shackles placed upon the holy warriors beneath Castel Sant’Angelo.
Such was their need for the blood and flesh of the Meta-Christs,
it was inevitable someone would eventually learn of their efforts.
And so it came to pass, when the War Prophets of Saint Methodius
captured a Consecution pilgrim fleeing New Antioch with stolen
blood relics. After rigorous interrogation by their Witchburner,
they took the repentant man’s confession and immediately set out
to put an end to the Consecution’s blasphemies. Upon reaching
the gorge north of Bathemolin, they were attacked by the twisted
monsters the Consecution had left to roam beyond the walls of
their hidden laboratory. Fuelled by zealous hate, the Pilgrims of
Methodius fought their way inside, finding numberless horrors
growing in amniotic vats, and members of the Consecution who
had experimented upon their own flesh in ever more grotesque
ways. Horrified, they put the Consecution to the sword, driving
the few survivors into the wilderness to face the wrath of their
own nightmarish by-blows. The Vivarium was cleansed by fire and
left to fall to ruin, but unbeknownst to all, the Great Work of the
Consecution remained hidden in a secret vault below the earth:
locked away, but still evolving and still growing.
The Vivarium
The Carcass Front 	29
ES

-- 33 of 104 --

Faction Lists & Mercenaries	30
CL
 	Faction Lists & Mercenaries	30

-- 34 of 104 --

Faction Lists & Mercenaries	31
fACTion 	lisTs 	& 	merCenAries
This section of the Carcass Front book has all of the rules you’ll
need to use the models that come with this set.
The Faction Lists
The models included in Carcass Front come from two different
types of Trench Crusade Warband: the Procession of the Sacred
Affliction and Heretic Naval Raiders. These Warbands first appeared
as Warband Variants in the Trench Crusade Rulebook, but have
been upgraded to fully fledged Warbands here, now with a detailed
Faction List together with new Warband Variants of their own.
If you are already using a Procession of the Sacred Affliction or
Heretic Naval Raiders Warband, you can start using the new
Faction List for your Warband instead of the Warband Variant
version of the list without having to change anything on your
existing roster. You’ll find this new Faction List is easier to use and
includes some new Warband Entries and Battlekit, but all the rules
for the Warband Variant are included in the Faction List and have
not been changed – all that is different is that you have some new
things that you can add to your Warband.
The two new Warbands are in the same format as the ones from the
Trench Crusade Rulebook, and are used in exactly the same way.
Each Faction List starts with lore for the Warband, describing its
history and how it fights. This is followed by the special rules that
apply to that Warband, an Armoury for the Warband, descriptions
of the special Battlekit it can use, and then Warband Entries for
each of the models that the Warband can have. Last but not least,
there are new Warband Variants for the Warband that you can use.
The Combat Biologist
As well as the two new Faction Lists, Carcass Front also includes
rules for a newer Mercenary called a Combat Biologist. The
Combat Biologist follows all of the rules for Mercenaries from the
Trench Crusade Rulebook, and can be recruited by New Antioch
and Iron Sultanate Warbands alike.
New Players Read This
If you are new to Trench Crusade, we recommend that you use the
Warbands on the Warband Rosters we’ve included in the Carcass
Front box for your first two or three games. Once you’ve gained
some experience using the pre-selected Warbands, you can then
use the rules in the Faction Lists section of this book to create your
own Warband.
Faction Lists & Mercenaries 	31

-- 35 of 104 --

The Procession of the Sacred Affliction	32
The 	ProCession
of 	The 	sACreD AffliCTion
The Vatican Archives record that the first “sacred processions”
appeared in the 13th century when the Wars of Triclavianism
spread into Westphalia and Saxony. Dispossessed communities of
refugees forced away from their land by the ravages of war began
to band together, to wander far and wide in search of safety and
sustenance. Local communities, alarmed at the prospect of starving
beggar armies gathering strength and eventually turning to banditry,
pressured the processions to either move elsewhere or attempted to
scatter them through force of arms. Many Christians, however, were
moved to compassion at the sight of the pitiful processions, for they
clung passionately to their Faith in the Almighty even in the face
of unthinkable privation and adversity, at times singing hymns and
praising God even as they were ridden down.
By the start of the fourteenth century several Holy Orders, most
notably the Knights of Saint Lazarus and Order of the Blessed
Virgin Mary of Mercy, had taken sacred processions under their
protection and guidance. They negotiated with temporal lords for
alms and permission for processions to pass through their lands,
tended to the sick, ministered to the faithful and punished the
sinful. A papal bull in 1303 formalised that it was the duty of all
Christians of good standing not to impede the sacred processions,
to treat them as pilgrims and to provide succour and charity
where possible. In turn the pilgrims of the sacred processions were
permitted to beg for alms, to rest for one day in seven on the sabbath
in order to praise God, but on all other days they had to march no
less than three leagues from their last camp to maintain their status.
The Great Conciliation in 1306 effectively brought the Wars of
Triclavianism to a close and with it most of the sacred processions
dispersed back to their old homes to rebuild, or else settled in
areas depopulated by the conflict. A few processions, however,
continued under the auspices of the Knights of Saint Lazarus. These
travelled the land collecting together orphans and crippled soldiers
abandoned after the wars, as well as the diseased and the insane that
had been driven out by their families and neighbours. Each pilgrim
was encouraged to help the others in whatever way they could. As
Otho, Bishop of Metz wrote:
“For a man without legs cannot march but he can stand watch and
prepare food, a blind man can still carry another and be guided by
their eyes, a child cannot bear great burdens but may still run ahead
to collect birds’ nests and spy out the land. As Ecclesiastes 4:9-10
and 12 tells us, ‘Two are better than one… If one falls down, his
friend can help him up… Though one may be overpowered, two can
defend themselves. A cord of three strands is not quickly broken.’”
The first true Processions of Sacred Affliction appeared over a
generation later, after that dark date in 1346 when Beelzebub
unleashed the plague of the Black Grail and began the Corpse
Wars. The sick and the dead soon outnumbered the living as the
worst epidemic in mankind’s history spread across the continent.
Sacred processions clogged the roads, many little more than
shuffling almost-dead. In southern France the ancient Roman
highway between Toulouse and Marseille is marked to this day by
roadside mounds every nine miles, traces of where the processions
burned their dead at their nightly camps.
In 1353 it is recorded that a certain Prophet Solon and his
procession were refused passage through Andorra after suffering
great privations crossing over the Pyrenees mountain range. Solon,
himself riven with disease and close to death, and his closest
followers shut themselves in a tomb in protest. He told the pilgrims
to wait no less than seven days before opening the tomb and to
then carry forth what they found to present at the town gates in
admonishment of their supposedly Christian oppressors. With great
cries and lamentations the pilgrims waited, many reporting that
they heard voices below the earth and saw fire in the heavens. On
the eighth day the strongest surviving pilgrims broke open the tomb
with tremulous strokes, fearing what they might discover within.
To their joy, the prophet emerged and each of his followers came out
after. They were still horribly marked and pocked by disease, but they
stood straight and strong, and they were in eye and voice even greater
than before, as they praised God for they had witnessed a miracle.
The Blessed Mary had appeared to them, they said, and salved their
wounds with clear cordial. She bid them to bear their afflictions as
a sacred gift from God, a stone to be carried that would make them
strong enough to endure all the persecutions of Hell. Solon’s followers
immediately departed to locate other sacred processions and spread
the glad tidings, while Solon himself overcame all objections to
travel into Iberia and hence onward into Morocco and then Tunisia,
debating other prophets and creating many new processions before
disappearing into the Levant at some time after 1401.
Today, the Pilgrims of the Procession of the Sacred Affliction are
known for their zeal in close combat, their armour decorated with
icons and shields adorned with depictions of the Saints, which
despite appearances can withstand machine gun bullets. The
millstones they carry upon their backs symbolise the burden of
sin, and in battle are used to tie about the necks of sinners before
drowning them in the mud and blood of No Man’s Land. They spurn
the use of iron capirotes, believing firmly that faith alone is enough
to withstand the horrors of Hell and that they must face their fears as
God intended.

-- 36 of 104 --

The Procession of the Sacred Affliction	33
MM

-- 37 of 104 --

The Procession of the Sacred Affliction	34
Warband Creation
You have 700 👑 to recruit a Warband for a
campaign (▶ see Starting a Warband in the
Trench Crusade Rulebook). Procession of
the Sacred Affliction Warbands are Faithful.
Special Rules
The 	following 	special 	rules 	apply 	to
a Procession of the Sacred Affliction
Warband, including any Procession of the
Sacred Affliction Warband Variants:
Punishing Millstones: Add +1 INJURY
DICE for Melee Attacks made by models
from a Procession of the Sacred Affliction
if the target is Down. Note that this bo-
nus is in addition to the +1 Injury Dice
modifier that normally applies when a tar-
get is Down, giving a total of +2 INJURY
DICE to the roll.
Wrath of God: Up to 1 Lazarist Castiga-
tor, Leper-Pilgrim, or Martyr Penitent can
have the Wrath of God special rule at a cost
of 15 👑. BLOOD MARKERS are never
placed next to a model with the Wrath of
God special rule, and it has the NEGATE
FEAR Keyword. It cannot be Broken on
the Wheel by an Anchorite Shrine. A
model with the Wrath of God special rule
cannot have Ranged Weapons or Armour
(it can have a Shield). In addition, change
the base size of the model to 32mm.
Mercenaries: The Procession of the Sacred
Afflictions can use any Faithful Mercenar-
ies that can be taken by Trench Pilgrim
Warbands.
Armoury Tables
Procession of the Sacred Affliction Warbands
can have the following Battlekit. Battlekit
items with a bullet point [•] are unique to
Procession of the Sacred Affliction Warbands,
and their rules can be found in the Sacred
Affliction Battlekit section on the next page.
The rules for all other pieces of Battlekit can
be found in the standard Battlekit section of
the Trench Crusade Rulebook.
Ranged Weapons
Automatic Pistol 	Limit: 2 	20 👑
Blunderbuss 	Shield Combo 	5 👑
Bolt-Action Rifle 	Bayonet Lug 	10 👑
Flamethrower 	Bayonet Lug, Limit: 2 	30 👑
Musket 	Bayonet Lug 	5 👑
Pistol 	6 👑
• Punt Gun 	Limit: 1 	20 👑
Semi-Automatic Rifle 	Bayonet Lug 	15 👑
Shotgun 	Bayonet Lug, Shield Combo 	10 👑
Sniper Rifle 	2 ☼
Submachine Gun 	Bayonet Lug, Shield Combo 	2 ☼
Melee Weapons
Anti-Tank Hammer 	Limit: 3 	35 👑
Bayonet 	Shield Combo 	2 👑
Flail/Scourge 	5 👑
• Great Flail/Scourge 	Limit: 3 	15 👑
Great Hammer/Maul 	10 👑
Great Sword/Axe 	12 👑
Misericordia 	Limit: 1 	15 👑
Polearm 	Shield Combo 	7 👑
Sword/Axe 	4 👑
Trench Club 	3 👑
Trench Knife 	1 👑
Grenades
Incendiary Grenades 	15 👑
Molotov Cocktail 	5 👑
• Warcross 	5 👑
Shield
Holy Icon Shield 	Shield Combo 	20 👑
Trench Shield 	Shield Combo 	10 👑
Armour
• Holy Icon Armour 	30 👑
• Ragged Vestments 	10 👑
Reinforced Armour 	ELITE only 	40 👑
Standard Armour 	15 👑
Equipment
• Bells of Warding 	ELITE only, Limit: 1 	2 ☼
Blessed Icon 	Consumable 	15 👑
• Blessed Millstone 	Leper-Pilgrims only, Limit: 2 	5 👑
Field Shrine 	2 ☼
Gas Mask 	5 👑
Holy Relic 	ELITE only 	2 ☼
Incendiary Ammunition 	Consumable, Limit: 1 	15 👑
Martyrdom Pills 	Consumable, Limit: 3 	20 👑
Medi-kit 	5 👑
Mountaineer Kit 	Limit: 1 	3 👑
Musical Instrument 	Limit: 1 	15 👑
• Penitent’s Phylactery 	Limit: 2 	12 👑
Troop Flag 	Limit: 1 	1 ☼
MF

-- 38 of 104 --

The Procession of the Sacred Affliction	35
GD
Procession of the Sacred Affliction Battlekit
The following Battlekit items are unique to the Procession of the Sacred Affliction Warbands.
Rules for all other items are in the standard Battlekit section of the Trench Crusade Rulebook.
Bells of Warding | 2 ☼ | ELITE only | Limit: 1
In many places the afflicted are required to announce their presence and status by ringing bells.
In a Procession of Sacred Affliction, those who join have their bells gathered together and rung
by a chosen member, the clangour declaring their unity and serving as a helpful guide to those of
them blessed enough to be without sight.
Type 	Range 	Keywords
Equipment 	- 	HELD, LEADER
Gathering Call: Add +1 DICE to Risky Success Rolls for friendly models that are taking
a Dash ACTION and are within 4” of one or more models with Bells of Warding or a
Musical Instrument.
Blessed Millstone | 5 👑 | Leper-Pilgrims only | Limit: 2
Followers of the Procession of Sacred Affliction carry weighty millstones as reminders of their
sins. The most sinful in their past lives cry out for the Blessed Millstone, a consecrated object
carved from the heaviest available stone, laden with the prayers and confessions of penitent souls.
Type 	Range 	Keywords
Equipment 	- 	-
Weighted with Sin: Subtract 1” from the Movement Characteristic of a model with a
Blessed Millstone, but add +2 INJURY DICE because of the Punishing Millstones
special rule instead of the usual +1 INJURY DICE. If the model takes an enemy Out of
Action with a Melee Attack they can, at the option of the player, be freed of the crushing
weight of the Blessed Millstone, regaining their full Movement Characteristic plus 1”
additional (the freedom of a lightened soul), and using the Punishing Millstones special
rule normally from then on. After the battle you can return the Blessed Millstone to the
model or bestow it on a different model in the Warband.
KI

-- 39 of 104 --

The Procession of the Sacred Affliction	36
Great Flail/Scourge | 15 👑 | Limit: 3
The Procession of the Sacred Affliction favour using the symbolic weight of their sins to educate
Heretics, wielding flails made of stones bound with rope of woven hemp with ecstatic gusto.
Type 	Range 	Keywords
2-Handed 	Melee 	+1 DICE, +1 INJURY DICE, CUMBERSOME,
HEAVY
Holy Icon Armour | 30 👑
This suit of Armour is made of blessed icons and scripture text within decorative scrollwork,
written with the blood of saints.
Type 	Range 	Keywords
Armour 	Melee 	-1 INJURY MODIFIER, IMPERVIOUS
Penitent’s Phylactery | 12 👑 | Limit: 2
A small box of either leather or sandalwood strapped to the Faithful’s arm or head. It contains
dried wafers of the blessed sores gleaned from those who bear the Sacred Affliction itself. Through
divine auspice the bearer’s blows will afflict the Fallen with the physical import of their sins.
Type 	Range 	Keywords
Equipment 	- 	-
Repudiation of Sin: When a model with a Penitent’s Phylactery makes a Melee Attack
that targets a model with the HERETIC, THE COURT or BLACK GRAIL Keyword,
place 1 extra BLOOD MARKER next to the target model after making the Injury Roll
(even if the Injury Roll has No Effect).
Punt Gun | 20 👑 | Limit: 1
The Punt Gun is an enormous shotgun loaded with as much as 25 ounces of shot. It can be loaded
with a risky amount of powder and square shot to cause widespread damage and destruction.
Type 	Range 	Keywords
2-Handed 	18” 	+1 DICE, +1 INJURY DICE, HEAVY, SHOT-
GUN, SHRAPNEL
Overcharge: Before making a Ranged Attack with a model armed with a Punt Gun, you
can say that the model will Overcharge the weapon. To do so, the model has to either
have the STRONG Keyword or be in base-to-base contact with a friendly model. An
Overcharged Ranged Attack gains the BLAST 3” and RELOAD Keywords. After an
Overcharged attack has been carried out, place 1 BLOOD MARKER next to the model
that made the attack, and its Activation immediately ends.
Ragged Vestments | 10 👑
The ragged clothes of penitents mark those who have wandered far across God’s creation. Amid the
Procession, such wrappings mark those who will be undaunted by high precipices or leaps of faith.
Type 	Range 	Keywords
Armour 	- 	-
Leap of Faith: Add +1 DICE to Risky Success Roll whenever a model with Ragged
Vestments Climbs, Jumps, or makes a Diving Charge, or takes a Dash ACTION, as long
as the model does not have a Shield, or any Weapons with the HEAVY Keyword.
Warcross | 5 👑
A four-pronged throwing weapon in the shape of a cross, each Warcross is engraved with prayers
that guide it on an unerring path.
Type 	Range 	Keywords
Grenade 	8” 	ASSAULT, IGNORE LONG RANGE

-- 40 of 104 --

The Procession of the Sacred Affliction	37
1 Lazarist Prophet – Cost: 90 👑
A Sacred Affliction Warband must include 1 Lazarist Prophet.
The Lazarist prophets who come to lead Processions of the Sacred Affliction are not motivated
by desire or their own sense of destiny. None that are called “Father” by the afflicted ever set
themselves on such a path. Whoever the prophet once was, the turn of the Rota Fortunae, the
wheel of fortune, and God’s Will have wrought their works on them most thoroughly, afflicting
them in body and mind. Only once they have shed all trace of Earthly treasures and all Pride
in their old existence do they truly perceive and proselytise on the teachings of Saint Lazarus: of
God’s unending love and His power over death, and how the Lord brings new life even when
all hope seems lost.
Movement 	Ranged 	Melee 	Armour 	Base
6”/Infantry 	+2 DICE 	+2 DICE 	0 	32mm
Battlekit 	A Lazarist Prophet can have any Battlekit from the Procession of
the Sacred Affliction Warband Armoury Tables.
Abilities 	Loudspeakers ACTION: A Lazarist Prophet can take a
Loudspeakers ACTION. If they do so, take a Risky
Success Roll for the model and add +2 DICE to the
roll. If the roll is a Failure, the Lazarist Prophet’s
Activation ends immediately. If the roll is a Success
or Critical Success, you can move all friendly
models within 8” of the Lazarist Prophet up to 3”.
They must end the move as close as possible to the
nearest enemy model that was visible to them at the
start of the move. This move can be used to bring a
model within 1” of an enemy model, in which case
the model counts as charging. If no enemy models
are visible, they can move normally.
Gift of the Sacrament ACTION: When you
Activate a Lazarist Prophet they can take a Gift of
the Sacrament ACTION as part of the Activation.
If they do so, take a Success Roll for the model.
If the roll is a Failure, nothing happens. If the
roll is a Success, remove 1 BLOOD MARKER
or 1 INFECTION MARKER from a friendly
model within 6” of the Lazarist Prophet. If the
roll is a Critical Success, remove either 3 BLOOD
MARKERS or 3 INFECTION MARKERS from
a friendly model within 6” of the Lazarist Prophet
instead of only 1. The Lazarist Prophet can use this
ACTION to heal themselves.
Memento Mori: The first time the
Lazarist Prophet suffers an
Out of Action result on the
Injury Table, it is treated as
a No Effect result instead.
A Lazarist Prophet cannot
have the TOUGH Keyword.
Keywords 	PILGRIM, ELITE,
LEADER
ª– Elite Warband Entries: God’s Chosen –≠
LM

-- 41 of 104 --

The Procession of the Sacred Affliction	38
0-1 Lazarist Communicant – Cost: 100 👑
A Communicant is a rare sight in most Processions of the Sacred Affliction, for their nature
typically decrees that they either recover fully from wounds or are slain by them. They are
still God’s creatures, however, and even when divinely transformed the sinful flesh of man
can receive harm or taint that even Christ’s communion cannot heal. More commonly,
Communicants may lose their way in mundane matters, forgetting to eat, drink or care for
themselves for long stretches of time, particularly if left alone without the care of others when
their compatriots are slain. In time these hapless unfortunates sometimes find their way to the
Processions in the hope that they can be healed, or at least find new purpose in their aimless
wandering. Those who have lost their Communicant Crosses must accept a modified Helm in its
place, with a faceplate that has spikes through the eyeholes.
Movement 	Ranged 	Melee 	Armour 	Base
6”/Infantry 	-3 DICE 	+2 DICE 	0 	40mm
Battlekit 	A Lazarist Communicant has a Communicant Cross or Helm (▶ see below).
The Lazarist Communicant can also have any Battlekit from the Procession of
the Sacred Affliction Warband Armoury Tables except for Martyrdom Pills.
Abilities 	Bodyguard: If a friendly PILGRIM model within 1” of a Lazarist
Communicant is hit by a Ranged Attack or Melee Attack, you can say that
the Lazarist Communicant will take the hit. If you do so, make an Injury
Roll for the Lazarist Communicant instead of the original target.
This ability cannot be used against attacks that have the
BLAST Keyword.
The Communicant Cross or Helm:
A Lazarist Communicant
counts as having the
following pieces of
Equipment at no cost in 👑:
Iron Capirote; Gas Mask.
Keywords 	PILGRIM, ELITE,
REGENERATE 1,
STRONG, TOUGH
LM

-- 42 of 104 --

The Procession of the Sacred Affliction	39
0-1 Lazarist Castigator – Cost: 50 👑
Lazarist Castigators take on the role of adjudicator in a Procession of the Sacred Affliction.
Their ear takes confession, their gaze judges all, and their hand weighs whether pilgrims carry
the commensurate load for their personal burden of sin. If it is too great the Castigator will see
that it is lightened, but if it is too little the Castigator will assign an appropriate additional
weight in stones for the sinner to carry slung about their neck. In battle the Castigator reminds
pilgrims often of their duty, both to God and to one another, to overcome their travails and cast
aside their burdens around the necks of God’s enemies.
Movement 	Ranged 	Melee 	Armour 	Base
6”/Infantry 	+1 DICE 	+1 DICE 	0 	32mm
Battlekit 	A Lazarist Castigator can have any Battlekit from the Procession of the
Sacred Affliction Warband Armoury Tables.
Abilities 	Enforced Orthodoxy ACTION: A Lazarist Castigator can take an
Enforced Orthodoxy ACTION. If they do so, take a Risky Success Roll
for the model and add +1 DICE to the roll. If the roll is a Failure, the
Lazarist Castigator’s Activation ends immediately. If the roll is a Success
or Critical Success, all friendly models that are within 8” of Lazarist
Castigator that are Down immediately stand back up at no cost to
their movement.
Whip of God: When a Lazarist Castigator makes a Melee Attack
they can target a friendly model that is within 1” instead of an
enemy model, and can add -1 INJURY DICE to the Injury Roll
if they do so. Set aside a D6 each time a Lazarist Castigator attacks
a friendly model and takes them Out of Action with a Melee Attack.
The next time the Lazarist Castigator’s Warband is forced to take a
Morale Check, each D6 that was put aside adds +1 DICE to the roll
and is then discarded.
Zealot Strength: A Lazarist Castigator can have the STRONG
Keyword at a cost of +5 👑.
Keywords 	PILGRIM, ELITE
LM

-- 43 of 104 --

The Procession of the Sacred Affliction	40
ª– Troops Warband Entries: The Faithful –≠
Leper-Pilgrims – Cost: 30 👑
Leper-Pilgrims are drawn from all peoples of the Faith and all walks of life. They are unified by
their Faith in God and in their fellow pilgrims to jointly bear the burden of their afflictions and
follow the path the Lord has made for them. The time for redemption is now, not tomorrow.
Leper-Pilgrim Profile
Movement 	Ranged 	Melee 	Armour 	Base
6”/Infantry 	+0 DICE 	+0 DICE 	0 	25mm
Martyr Penitent Profile
Movement 	Ranged 	Melee 	Armour 	Base
6”/Infantry 	+0 DICE 	+1 DICE 	0 	25mm
Battlekit 	A Leper-Pilgrim can have any Battlekit from Procession of the
Sacred Affliction Warband Armoury Tables.
Abilities 	Resurrection: If a Leper Pilgrim is killed after a game (▶ see Campaign
in the Trench Crusade Digital Rulebook), they can be resurrected in the
following Quartermaster Step as a Martyr Penitent with the Martyr Penitent
Profile for a cost 45 👑. Add -1 INJURY DICE to Injury Rolls for a Martyr
Penitent. A Martyr Penitent keeps their Battlekit and Zealot Strength
if the ability was purchased, but loses any Battle Scars, Experience, and
Advancements. Martyrdom Pills have no effect on a Martyr Penitent model.
Zealot Strength: When you add a Leper-Pilgrim or Martyr Penitent to
your Warband you can purchase the STRONG Keyword for them for
5 👑. You cannot have a total of more than 3 models with Zealot Strength
in your Warband at any one time. Models with Zealot Strength increase
their base size to 32mm.
Keywords 	PILGRIM
0-4 Stigmatic Nuns – Cost: 60 👑
Several orders of Stigmatic Nun have ties to the Processions – some sisterhoods are even blessed
with the Sacred Affliction themselves. They often join Processions on long pilgrimages and share
their burdens along the road. Their keen blades and martial spirit are greatly welcome in battle.
Movement 	Ranged 	Melee 	Armour 	Base
8”/Infantry 	+1 DICE 	+1 DICE 	0 	25mm
Battlekit 	A Stigmatic Nun can have Battlekit from the Procession of the Sacred
Affliction Warband Armoury Table. The only Ranged Weapons they can
have are Automatic Pistols and Pistols, and the only Grenades they can have
are Warcrosses. No restrictions apply to any other types of Battlekit.
Abilities 	Agile: Add +1 DICE to Risky Success Roll when a Stigmatic Nun Climbs,
Jumps, or makes a Diving Charge, or takes a Dash ACTION.
Blessed Stigmata: Each time you remove a BLOOD MARKER from
a Stigmatic Nun due to the REGENERATE 1 Keyword, place 1
BLESSING MARKER next to the Stigmatic Nun.
Keywords 	PILGRIM, REGENERATE 1
MF
LM

-- 44 of 104 --

The Procession of the Sacred Affliction	41
Ecclesiastic Prisoners – Cost: 20 👑
Some are found to be beyond the gift of God’s love or redemption through toil and burden,
so they seek a final sacrifice in the hope it can somehow cleanse their tarnished soul. A sad
moment it may be for their Procession to have failed one of their number so, but a joyous hope
that the Prisoner’s spiritual unburdening can at least erase the burdens of Heretic souls in the
process. Particularly determined Prisoners of the Sacred Affliction are permitted to request a
Minenhelm in place of the usual Martyrdom Device, ensuring that their last act of redemption
will be truly and absolutely final.
Movement 	Ranged 	Melee 	Armour 	Base
6”/Infantry 	- 	-1 DICE 	0 	25mm
Battlekit 	Up to 4 Ecclesiastic Prisoners can have a Martyrdom Device for 25 👑
(▶ see below). They cannot have any other Battlekit. Ecclesiastic Prisoners
that have a Martyrdom Device can upgrade it to a Minenhelm for 10 👑.
Abilities 	Awaited: If an Ecclesiastic Prisoner is taken Out of Action when their
Martyrdom Device is triggered, do not count this towards the number
of models from the Warband that have been taken Out of Action for
Morale Checks.
Feeble Flailing: An Ecclesiastic Prisoner can make a Melee Attack even
though it does not have a Melee Weapon. If it does so, add -1 DICE to the
Success Roll.
Mad Dash: Add +1 DICE to the Risky Success Roll for an Ecclesiastic
Prisoner that is taking a Dash ACTION.
Minenhelm Slam: An Ecclesiastic Prisoner that has a Minenhelm can
make a Melee Attack even though they do not have a Melee Weapon.
Keywords 	PILGRIM
Martyrdom Device: An Ecclesiastic Prisoner with a Martyrdom Device
can take a Trigger Martyrdom Device ACTION. If they do so, the
Martyrdom Device detonates and cannot be used again. When
a Martyrdom Device detonates, make an Injury Roll with
the SHRAPNEL Keyword for all models within 3” of the
Ecclesiastic Prisoner. Make the Injury Roll for the Ecclesiastic
Prisoner by rolling 4D6 and adding all 4 dice together, and
add +1 INJURY DICE to the Injury Rolls for other models
that are within 1” of the Ecclesiastic Prisoner. If an Ecclesiastic
Prisoner detonates their Martyrdom Device and survives the
game, you must either buy them a new Martyrdom Device for
25 👑, or use them without one.
Minenhelm: Add +1 INJURY DICE to the Injury Rolls for
models that are within 1” of an Ecclesiastic Prisoner with a
Minenhelm (for a total of +2 INJURY DICE instead of +1
when using a Minenhelm). Ecclesiastic Prisoners that have
a Minenhelm are automatically killed when their
Martyrdom Device detonates.
LM
VM

-- 45 of 104 --

The Procession of the Sacred Affliction	42
0-1 Anchorite Shrine – Cost: 140 👑
In recognition of their ultimate devotion, Anchorite Shrines hold special significance for
Processions. The pilot-monk interred within has taken on the burden of imprisonment inside
an unfeeling machine, not only for their own soul’s sake, but for the sake of all the Faithful
everywhere. As such they are celebrated members, often brightly garlanded and covered with
prayers, talismans and keepsakes from the pilgrims. Where the path of an Anchorite Shrine may
ultimately lead, none but the Almighty can say, but for however long an Anchorite Shrine may
stay with a Procession it is beloved by all.
Movement 	Ranged 	Melee 	Armour 	Base
6”/Infantry 	- 	+2 DICE 	-3 	60mm
Battlekit 	An Anchorite Shrine has a Bonebreaker Mace and a Catherine Wheel (▶ see
below). These weapons are built into the Anchorite Shrine and cannot be
removed or lost over the course of a campaign for any reason. The Shrine
cannot have any other Battlekit.
Abilities 	Broken on the Wheel: At the start of each game, before deployment, you
can say that one Leper-Pilgrim or Ecclesiastic Prisoner will be broken
on the wheel to show their piety and devotion. The model you choose is
permanently removed from your Warband, but in a campaign you can
redistribute their Battlekit to other models that would be allowed to have it
in the following Quartermaster Step. The Anchorite Shrine then shatters the
bones of the volunteer and carries the broken victim to battle upon its great
wheel. Injuries that would be inflicted on the Anchorite Shrine are instead
inflicted on its unfortunate victim, until the victim finally passes away. This
is represented by the following special rules, which apply to the Anchorite
Shrine until it suffers an Out of Action result on the Injury Table:
It has an Armour Characteristic of 0 and does not have the NEGATE
SHRAPNEL and TOUGH Keywords.
It treats Down results as Minor Hit results.
The first time the Anchorite Shrine suffers an Out of Action result on
the Injury Table, it is treated as a No Effect result. When this happens,
any BLOOD MARKERS on the Anchorite Shire are removed, and
from then on these special rules no longer apply to the model.
Symphony of Slaughter: An Anchorite Shrine is armed with two
1-Handed Melee Weapons (the Catherine Wheel and a Bonebreaker
Mace). When it makes a Melee Attack, it can either attack once using
either its Catherine Wheel or the Bonebreaker Mace, or twice, first with
the Catherine Wheel and second with its Bonebreaker Mace (the Off-
Hand Weapon modifier applies to the attack made with the Bonebreaker
Mace). Note that both Weapons have the RISKY Keyword, which means
that the Anchorite Shrine’s Activation ends immediately if the Success
Roll for an attack made with either weapon is a Failure.
Keywords 	PILGRIM, FEAR, NEGATE SHRAPNEL, STRONG, TOUGH
Bonebreaker Mace
Type 	Range 	Keywords
1-Handed 	Melee 	+1 INJURY DICE, RISKY
Catherine Wheel
Type 	Range 	Keywords
1-Handed 	Melee 	+1 DICE, DEADLY, HEAVY, RISKY
The Procession of the Sacred Affliction	42

-- 46 of 104 --

The Procession of the Sacred Affliction	43	The Procession of the Sacred Affliction 	43
LM

-- 47 of 104 --

The Procession of the Sacred Affliction	44
ª– Warband Variants –≠
The Knights
of Saint Lazarus
The parable of Lazarus has been interpreted
in many ways: while depicted as a beggar,
scholars speculate whether in former life
Lazarus began as a noble, a criminal,
a teacher, or even a Roman centurion.
The Knights of Saint Lazarus were not
canonically recognised as a hospitaller and
military order of chivalry under the rules
of Saint Augustine until the papal bull of
Pope Alexander IV in 1255, even though
the followers of Saint Lazarus had been
active for several centuries by that time. They
were primarily centred on their Christian
charism (an exceptional gift from the Holy
Spirit) of caring for those afflicted with
leprosy, but knights of the Order of Saint
Lazarus notably fought in the Year of the
Three Battles in 1101. After the fall of Acre,
the Knights became scattered, with various
bands eventually settling in Antioch (later
New Antioch), Cyprus, France, and Italy.
As the Great War spread they broadened
their charism to include all those beset by
affliction through war, disease or privation.
Wandering warbands of these knights can
be seen on many battlefronts, often almost
indistinguishable from the larger Processions
they give rise to. To the uncouth they are
often referred to as Leper-Knights or
Lazarists. Although generally well-schooled
in the arts of modern warfare, the Knights
of Saint Lazarus continue to forbid the use
of Sniper Rifles in their warbands, viewing
them as cowardly and un-Christian.
THE KNIGHTS OF SAINT LAZARUS SPECIAL RULES
The following special rules apply to a Knights of Saint Lazarus Warband.
Sacred Code: A Knights of Saint Lazarus Warband must include 1-6 Stigmatic Nuns. In
addition, it cannot include Lazarist Communicants or Lazarist Castigators, and models
in this Warband cannot voluntarily take a Retreat ACTION.
Knightly Order: A Knights of Saint Lazarus Warband must include 1-3 Leper-Knights.
The Leper-Knights use the Lazarist Castigator Warband entry but must wear a suit of
Armour, have a Melee Characteristic of +2 DICE, and replace the Whip of God Ability
with the Knightly Code Ability.
Knightly Code: When a Leper-Knight makes a Melee Attack that takes an enemy
model Out of Action, you can remove 1 BLOOD MARKER from the Leper-Knight
or a friendly model within 3” of the Leper-Knight. If the enemy model had the ELITE
Keyword, you can place 1 BLESSING MARKER beside the Leper-Knight instead of
removing a BLOOD MARKER.
Blessed Armoury: Automatic Pistols cost 15 👑 and Great Swords cost 7 👑 for a Knights
of Saint Lazarus Warband. In addition, models in a Knights of Saint Lazarus Warband
cannot have Ranged Weapons with a cost of more than 15 👑 or a cost in ☼.
Followers of Saint Lazarus: A Knights of Saint Lazarus Warband may have a Temporal
Lord as their Patron in addition to the standard options to choose from.
MM

-- 48 of 104 --

The Procession of the Sacred Affliction	45
Procession
of the Blessed Flock
During especially brutal campaigns, and
particularly in the aftermath of the bloodiest
battles, Lazarist Castigators will move
among the dead seeking lost Communicants.
They find those who have survived the deaths
of their companions, been rendered insensible
by artillery, or become trapped under piles of
bodies or debris, and gather them together
into a Procession. Communicants will often
recover their wits and direction with time
and care, but until they do the Lazarist
Castigators remain on hand to carefully
guide the Communicants’ focus. It is also not
uncommon for a Blessed Flock to accumulate
a large number of Ecclesiastic Prisoners
seeking redemption for their sins.
PROCESSION OF THE BLESSED FLOCK SPECIAL RULES
The following special rules apply to a Procession of the Blessed Flock Warband.
Shepherds and Lambs: A Procession of the Blessed Flock Warband may include 1-3 Lazar-
ist Castigators and 1-6 Lazarist Communicants. One Lazarist Castigator must be taken for
each 2 Lazarist Communicants or part thereof (e.g. 3 Lazarist Communicants would need
2 Lazarist Castigators to watch over them). Lazarist Communicants in a Procession of the
Blessed Flock Warband do not have the ELITE Keyword, but their cost remains the same.
Guidance: If a friendly Lazarist Communicant Activates whilst not standing within 6”
of a friendly Lazarist Castigator, all Success Rolls it takes during that Activation become
Risky Success Rolls (there is no additional effect if they are Risky Success Rolls already).
Dishevelled Procession: A Procession of the Blessed Flock Warband can only have 0-2
Stigmatic Nuns, and cannot include Anchorite Shrines or Leper-Pilgrims.
Flagellant Flock: Ecclesiastic Prisoners in a Procession of the Blessed Flock Warband have
a Ranged Characteristic of -1 DICE at no additional cost in 👑. In addition, Ecclesiastic
Prisoners in a Procession of the Blessed Flock Warband can purchase Muskets,
Blunderbusses, Warcrosses, Flails/Scourges, Ragged Vestments, and Trench Shields from
the Procession of the Sacred Affliction Armoury Table.
Scavenged Armoury: A Procession of the Blessed Flock Warband cannot have Automatic
Pistols, Semi-Automatic Rifles, Sniper Rifles, Submachine Guns, Incendiary Grenades, or
Reinforced Armour.
MM

-- 49 of 104 --

Heretic Naval Raiders	46
The Heretic Fleet operates as a semi-autonomous entity under the
command of its High Captain and other admirals. The Heretics
have their own marine infantry, which often operate in small
bands, striking deep behind enemy lines and executing smash-and-
grab missions. They are always on the lookout for captives, loot,
information, supplies, rare artefacts, and any opportunity to express
their cruelty and brutality.
The Heretics maintain naval supremacy on the majority of the
Seven Seas: only in the Mediterranean do the Faithful strive to
maintain some parity in order to ensure the supply lines into New
Antioch. Elsewhere, the Heretic Naval Raiders are an ever-present
menace to shipping lanes and coastal communities.
Commanded by the High Captains, the power of the Heretic Fleet
is three-fold. First, there are the Behemoth capital ships, built in
mockery of the Ark that God once bade Noah to construct. These
are enormous vessels, floating cities that act as mobile bases for their
second strength: the fast strike craft and the insidious submarines
that prowl the shipping lanes and ambush military convoys.
Thirdly, for land operations, the fleets employ their infamous Naval
Raiders as marine infantry.
Naval Raiders’ armour is modified to double as diving suits, allowing
entire strike teams to infiltrate the shoreline batteries or harbour
defences undetected. The diving cylinders of the Anointed Naval
Raiders hold oxygen mixed with unnatural fumes from the Lake of
Fire, providing up to sixty-six hours of breathable gas, and bestowing
a high degree of resistance to decompression sickness. Thus, they
can stay submerged for extended periods of time, gathering large
infantry strike forces undetected right at the enemy shores.
The Heretic Naval Raiders rarely have problems finding fresh
recruits. Several mighty nobles of Hell lay claim over the Seven Seas,
attracting many of their worshippers to the fleets. There is plentiful
loot, together with many chances for promotion and finding favour
in the eyes of their infernal overlords through deeds of wanton
murder – despoiling the places where saints once spread the faith of
the Tyrant-God whom Heretics hate with white-hot rage.
A favourite tactic of the Naval Raiders is to sneak up on their
target in the cover of night, striking at dawn in honour of the
Morningstar. This serves the dual purpose of taking the enemies
when they are at their most vulnerable, and enacting a blasphemous
ritual in honour of the throne that the Infernal Lords will surely
one day erect on Mount Zaphon after toppling the seat of YHWH.
The raids typically start with a silent stealth assault: unsuspecting
lookouts will have their throats ripped open by the Tartarus claws
and drills of Abyssal Commandos, while silent Naval Legionnaires
emerge from beneath the waves, unleashing sudden death with
poison gas grenades, silenced pistols and boarding axes. Once the
alarm is raised, a bombardment by specialised Sea Hags (Artillery
Witches modified for naval warfare, whose bombs can be used as
sea mines and torpedoes as well as ordnance) pound the target,
throwing defenders into confusion and turmoil. This shock attack
is typically followed up by a charge of elite Legionnaires intoxicated
by the fumes of their oxygen tanks.
Often the Naval Raiders have crept so close to their enemies that
when the time to strike comes there is no time to organise defences.
Lacking heavier troops or armoured support, the Naval Raiders’
combat doctrine relies on speed, surprise and savagery. Fighting is
to be undertaken at close quarters, favouring automatic weapons
and penetrating any lines of defence rapidly, engaging their enemies
in brutal melee with boarding axes and short stabbing blades before
a proper defensive line can be organised against them.
Competition for prestige and the honour of inflicting the greatest
amount of pain and destruction on the Faithful lands is fierce.
To provide proof of the success of their attacks (and to strike fear
in the hearts of their enemies), each High Captain has their own
unique way of declaring that they were behind the raid, each more
depraved than the next. For example, the 112th Sea Legion, the
“Virtue-Breakers”, dismembers its fallen enemies, and uses Goetic
rituals to return a necromantic semblance of life to quivering
flesh, leaving crawling and twitching arms, legs and screaming
heads behind for any rescuers to discover. Meanwhile the crew
of the Serpent-class strike ship Disciple of the Burning Water
prefers to drag their opponents overboard and then cut them with
underwater welding torches. They take great pride in killing their
prey simultaneously by drowning and being burned alive.
Objectives of the Heretic raids vary: slave raids, destruction of
shore defences or communities, gathering information, looting
coastal enclaves or escorting commandos on missions to take out
important Church leaders or temporal rulers through assassination.
What the Faithful fear the most, however, are full-scale invasions
within their heartlands, like the bloody invasion of Eire at the
beginning of the 19th century, or the audacious 1872 landing that
conquered Riejka and established a beachhead that sits like a dagger
pointed at the very heart of the Church.
Thus the sea patrols from the Gulf of Finland to the coastal guard
of the Demesne of France and the Kapudan Pasha’s fleet sailing the
Sea of Arabia nervously watch the horizon, hoping that the waters
off their home shores do not hide Heretic raiders. But the age of the
Great War is dark, and the sea belongs to the enemies of God.
hereTiC 	nAvAl 	rAiDers

-- 50 of 104 --

Heretic Naval Raiders	47
MF

-- 51 of 104 --

Heretic Naval Raiders	48
Warband Creation
You have 700 👑 to recruit a Warband for a
campaign (▶ see Starting a Warband in the
Trench Crusade Rulebook). Heretic Naval
Raiders are Fallen.
Special Rules
The following special rules apply to a Her-
etic Naval Raiders Warband, including any
Heretic Naval Raiders Warband Variants:
Fast as Lightning: Add +1 DICE to the
Risky Success Roll for models from a Her-
etic Naval Raiders Warband that are tak-
ing a Dash ACTION.
Unseen Advance: Up to 3 models with-
out the ELITE Keyword in a Heretic
Naval Raiders Warband can be given the
INFILTRATOR Keyword at a cost of
+10 👑 each.
Mercenaries: Heretic Naval Raiders War-
bands can use any Fallen Mercenaries that
can be taken by Heretic Legion Warbands.
Armoury Tables
Heretic Naval Raiders can have the follow-
ing Battlekit. Battlekit items with a bullet
point [•] are unique to Heretic Naval Raid-
ers Warbands, and rules for them can be
found in the Heretic Naval Raiders Battle-
kit section after the Armoury. The rules for
all other Battlekit can be found in the stand-
ard Battlekit section of the Trench Crusade
Rulebook.
Ranged Weapons
Anti-Materiel Rifle 	Limit: 1 	3 ☼
Automatic Rifle 	Bayonet Lug, Limit: 2 	2 ☼
Automatic Shotgun 	Bayonet Lug, Shield Combo 	15 👑
Bolt-Action Rifle 	Bayonet Lug 	10 👑
Flamethrower 	Limit: 3 	30 👑
Grenade Launcher 	Limit: 2 	30 👑
Heavy Flamethrower 	Limit: 2 	55 👑
Machine Gun 	Limit: 1 	50 👑
Pistol 	6 👑
Semi-Automatic Rifle 	Bayonet Lug 	15 👑
Shotgun 	Bayonet Lug, Shield Combo 	10 👑
Silenced Pistol 	ELITE only 	15 👑
Submachine Gun 	Bayonet Lug, Shield Combo 	25 👑
Melee Weapons
Bayonet 	Shield Combo 	2 👑
• Blasphemous Staff 	ELITE only 	2 ☼
• Boarding Axe 	10 👑
Great Hammer/Maul 	10 👑
Great Sword/Axe 	12 👑
Hellblade 	Limit: 2 	1 ☼
• Hull Drill 	Abyssal Commando Only 	20 👑
Polearm 	Shield Combo 	7 👑
• Sacrificial Blade 	ELITE Only, Limit: 2 	23 👑
Sword/Axe 	4 👑
• Tartarus Claws 	Abyssal Commando Only 	15 👑
Trench Club 	3 👑
Trench Knife 	1 👑
• Wrecker’s Torch 	ELITE Only, Shield Combo 	15 👑
Grenades
Frag Grenades 	7 👑
Gas Grenades 	10 👑
Incendiary Grenades 	15 👑
Shield
Trench Shield 	Shield Combo 	10 👑
Armour
Reinforced Armour 	ELITE & Anointed Heretic Raiders only 	40 👑
Standard Armour 	15 👑
Equipment
Combat Helmet 	Headgear 	5 👑
Gas Mask 	5 👑
Hellbound Soul Contract Heretic Raiders & Heretic Raider Legionnaires
only, Limit: 3 5 👑
Incendiary Ammunition 	Consumable, Limit: 1 	15 👑
Infernal Brand 	5 👑
Mountaineer Kit 	Limit: 2 	3 👑
Musical Instrument 	Limit: 1 	15 👑
• Shark Tooth Talisman 	Consumable 	10 👑
Shovel 	5 👑
Troop Flag 	Limit: 1 	1 ☼
Unholy Relic 	15 👑
Unholy Trinket 	Consumable 	15 👑
MF

-- 52 of 104 --

Heretic Naval Raiders	49
Heretic Naval Raiders Battlekit
The following unique pieces of Battlekit are only available to Heretic Naval Raiders. The
rules for all other pieces of Battlekit can be found in the Standard Battlekit section of the
Trench Crusade Rulebook.
Blasphemous Staff | 2 ☼ | ELITE only
Crafted in mockery of the rod carried by the prophet Aaron, this evil staff unleashes searing
hellfire, causing excruciating pain with the slightest touch.
Type 	Range 	Keywords
1-Handed 	Melee 	CRITICAL, FIRE
Evil Power: Add +1 DICE to Success Rolls or Risky Success Rolls for a model with a
Blasphemous Staff, apart from the Success Rolls for a Ranged or Melee Attack, or the
Risky Success Roll to take a Dash ACTION.
Boarding Axe | 10 👑
Raider boarding axes feature deeply serrated blades to grip hulls or rails and bite deep. Runes of
ruin and despair are etched into their sodden hafts, and at their touch iron and steel flakes to rust.
Type 	Range 	Keywords
1-Handed 	Melee 	ARMOUR PIERCING, CRITICAL, RISKY
Boarding: Add +1 DICE to Risky Success Rolls for friendly models with this special rule
that are attempting to Climb a sheer surface.
KI

-- 53 of 104 --

Heretic Naval Raiders	50
Hull Drill | 20 👑 | Abyssal Commando only
The Hull Drill is a favoured tool of the Abyssal Commandos. It is able to tear a hole in the
bottom of a ship or through the throat of an armoured foe with equal ferocity.
Type 	Range 	Keywords
1-Handed 	Melee 	CRITICAL, HELD, IGNORE ARMOUR,
RISKY
Sacrificial Blade | 23 👑 | ELITE Only | Limit: 2
Terrifying blades blessed by the hand of a greater devil, these knives are used in Heretic rituals
to sacrifice captives to the dark powers of Hell. They simply need to touch their opponents to cause
indescribable pain, and even the most minor wound often proves fatal from the agony alone.
They are risky even to their wielders, as the merest scratch will wound friend and foe alike.
Type 	Range 	Keywords
1-Handed 	Melee 	+2 INJURY MODIFIER, RISKY
Shark Tooth Talisman | 10 👑 | Consumable
Sharks are the wolves of the sea; raiders sacrifice bloody flesh, living or dead, to appease them
often. Shoals of sharks trail behind every raider vessel, always hungry but assured they will soon
be fed again. The fiercest raiders style talismans made from sharks’ teeth, they fear no peril at sea
or on land and in battle they become gripped by the frenzied spirit of their totem.
Type 	Range 	Keywords
Equipment 	- 	CONSUMABLE, NEGATE FEAR
Blood Frenzy: Once during a game, a model with a Shark Tooth Talisman can invoke a
Blood Frenzy. If they do so and any model (friend or foe) within 1” of the model with the
Shark Tooth Talisman has 1 or more BLOOD MARKERS, add +1 DICE to the Success
Rolls for Melee Attacks made by the model with the Shark Tooth Talisman for the rest of
their Activation.
Tartarus Claws | 15 👑 | Abyssal Commando only
Made from severed hands of Malebranche, the Tartarus Claws are granted by archdevils only to
those whose hearts are blackened with the sin of Wrath.
Type 	Range 	Keywords
2-Handed 	Melee 	CRITICAL, CLEAVE 2, CUMBERSOME
Harrowing Assault: If the target is taken Down or Out of Action by a Melee Attack
made with Tartarus Claws, you can immediately move the model up to 3”. You can use
this move to move within 1” another enemy model, and if you do so, this model can
take another Fight ACTION. However, it cannot make the 3” move again if the second
attack takes the target Down or Out of Action.
Wrecker’s Torch | 15 👑 | ELITE Only | Shield Combo
Fuelled by fires drawn from the River Phlegethon, the Wrecker’s Torch burns endlessly with a hell-
ish glow. It serves as a beacon for Heretic Raiders and as a searing weapon against man or vessel.
Type 	Range 	Keywords
2-Handed 	Melee 	ARMOUR PIERCING, BLOCK, CUMBER-
SOME, FIRE
MF

-- 54 of 104 --

Heretic Naval Raiders	51
ª– Elite Warband Entries: The Devil’s Own –≠
1 Heretic Captain – Cost: 80 👑
A Heretic Naval Raiders Warband must
include 1 Heretic Captain.
The Heretic Captain is the absolute master
of their ship and every soul aboard it. They
are high priests and prophets to their crew,
delivering sermons and making sacrifices
upon the blood-slick deck. A Heretic Captain
has pledged themselves wholly to one of the
Seven-Headed Serpents, bartering their
immortal soul in exchange for absolute power
over their small mortal kingdom bordered
only by wood or iron. They are strange,
driven men, given to greed, madness and
obsession, caught in an eternal geas to seek
and plunder for their infernal masters to
repay debts that can never be fulfilled.
Movement 	Ranged 	Melee 	Armour 	Base
6”/Infantry 	+2 DICE 	+2 DICE 	0 	32mm
Battlekit 	A Heretic Captain can have any Battlekit from the Heretic Naval Raiders
Armoury Tables.
Abilities 	Puppet Master ACTION: A Heretic Captain can take a Puppet Master
ACTION. If they do so, take a Risky Success Roll for the model. If the
roll is a Failure, the Heretic Captain’s Activation ends immediately. If the
roll is a Success or Critical Success, pick 1 model (friend or foe) other
than the Heretic Captain, that is within 12” of the Heretic Captain, and
in their Line of Sight. You can move the model D6”. The move must be
in a straight line, but can be in any direction, and can be used to make the
model move within 1” of an enemy, make a retreat move, Climb, Jump, or
Jump Down. The model cannot make a Diving Charge and does not count
as charging if it finishes the move within 1” of an enemy model.
Keywords 	HERETIC, ELITE, LEADER, TOUGH
MF

-- 55 of 104 --

Heretic Naval Raiders	52
0-1 Abyssal Commando – Cost: 90 👑
The Abyssal Commando is a Death Commando who chooses to stalk the depths alone, often
invading harbours and estuaries to doom ships hiding from the raiders upon the high seas.
Outside the water Abyssal commandos are surrounded by a freezing mist born of the eternal
cold that they carry with them from the lightless depths. They arise to work alongside Raider
crews in response to a distant call only they can hear.
Movement 	Ranged 	Melee 	Armour 	Base
6”/Infantry 	+1 DICE 	+2 DICE 	0 	32mm
Battlekit 	An Abyssal Commando can have Battlekit from the Heretic Legion Armoury
Tables. The only Ranged Weapons they can have are Silenced Pistols and
Tormentor Chains, and the only Grenades they can have are Gas Grenades.
No restrictions apply to any other Types of Battlekit. An Abyssal Commando
with Reinforced Armour can upgrade it to Abyssal Armour for 5 👑.
Abilities 	Mist-shrouded: Add -1 DICE to Ranged Attacks that target an Abyssal
Commando.
Fade ACTION: An Abyssal Commando can take a Fade ACTION if
they are in contact with a terrain that is composed of water or a terrain
piece at least ½” high. If they do so, take a Risky Success Roll for the
model and add +1 DICE to the roll. If the roll is a Failure, the Abyssal
Commando’s Activation ends immediately. If the roll is a Success or
Critical Success, enemy models cannot choose the Abyssal Commando as
the target for a Ranged Attack or Charge until the Abyssal Commando
moves, charges, retreats, makes a Ranged Attack, or an enemy model
moves within 1.5” of them. The Abyssal Commando can be hit if they are
within the blast radius of a Weapon with the BLAST Keyword.
Abyssal Armour: An Abyssal Commando in Abyssal Armour counts any
terrain that is partially, or fully, made of water (such as pools, streams, and
marshes) as Open terrain. In addition, when touching such terrain they
may use a Fade ACTION and count as in Cover if the terrain’s area is
larger than a 32mm base.
Keywords 	HERETIC, ELITE, INFILTRATOR
0-1 Drowned Chorister – Cost: 65 👑
It is said that those who experience near-death through drowning speak of hearing something in
the deeps, a song or call or roar they cannot explain. Some can never shake the memory – it haunts
their dreams and their waking world until they receive revelation and consummation. Doomed to
search for it forever after, some take up the Leviathan bell, a sealed casque of abyssal waters.
Within the bell they are drowned and reborn, recalling the sonorous calls of the darkest depths,
a sound fit to cloud the mind and chill the marrow of any mortal souls who hear it. Drowned
Choristers float eternally in unseen waters, their binding-chains stirred by ghostly currents.
Movement 	Ranged 	Melee 	Armour 	Base
6”/Infantry 	-2 DICE 	+2 DICE 	0 	32mm
Battlekit 	A Drowned Chorister can have any Battlekit from the Heretic
Naval Raiders Armoury Tables. A Drowned Chorister can have
a Leviathan Bell for 10 👑.
Abilities 	Unholy Hymns: Add -1 DICE to Success Rolls taken for enemy
models that are within 8” of one or more Drowned Choristers.
Leviathan Bell: You do not have to take a Risky Success Roll
for a Drowned Chorister with a Leviathan Bell when they
Climb or Jump, nor make an Injury Roll if they Fall.
Keywords 	HERETIC, ELITE, FEAR
MF
MF

-- 56 of 104 --

Heretic Naval Raiders	53
Heretic Raiders – Cost: 30 👑
Heretic Raiders make up the majority of the warband, sworn to serve beneath the Heretic
Captain until Heaven cracks and the seas drain away. They are quick and well-armed,
equipped with the pick of the plunder from a hundred raids. Heretic Raider Legionnaires are
veterans of the crew, often trusted gunners and topside men, who vie to be the first to step ashore
or invade a foreign deck.
Heretic Raider Profile
Movement 	Ranged 	Melee 	Armour 	Base
6”/Infantry 	+0 DICE 	+0 DICE 	0 	25mm
Heretic Raider Legionnaire Profile
Movement 	Ranged 	Melee 	Armour 	Base
6”/Infantry 	See below 	See below 	0 	25mm
Battlekit 	A Heretic Raider or Heretic Raider Legionnaire can have any Battlekit from
the Heretic Naval Raiders Armoury Tables.
Abilities 	Heretic Raider Legionnaires: You can upgrade Heretic Raiders in your
Warband to Heretic Raider Legionnaires, at a cost of 10 👑 each. You
cannot upgrade a Heretic Raider if that would result in there being more
Heretic Raider Legionnaires in your Warband than there are Heretic
Raiders. When you upgrade a Heretic Raider to a Heretic Raider
Legionnaire, you can change either their Ranged Characteristic or their
Melee Characteristic from 0 to +1.
Keywords 	HERETIC
ª– Troops Warband Entries: Fallen Mariners –≠
Wretched – Cost: 25 👑
Heretic Raiders have depopulated entire coastlines with their incessant attacks across the
generations. Huge numbers of souls are taken by them as plunder to be sold to flesh-markets and
caravans of Sin, though the strongest may be kept by the raiders themselves for sport and toil.
Such Wretched are branded with cursed, flesh-eating tattoos as a safeguard against escape and
heavily drugged to degrade and dull their will, while still leaving their aggression intact.
Movement 	Ranged 	Melee 	Armour 	Base
6”/Infantry 	-1 DICE 	-1 DICE 	0 	25mm
Battlekit 	Wretched can have any Battlekit from the Heretic Naval Raiders Armoury
Tables that costs up to 10 👑. A Wretched must have at least 1 Weapon –
they cannot be sent into battle completely unarmed.
Abilities 	Chattel: In a campaign, Wretched can be sold in the Quartermaster Step
for 25 👑 plus half the cost in 👑 of any Battlekit they have.
Dark Blessing: When a Wretched is taken Out of Action, place 1 BLESS-
ING MARKER next to the nearest friendly model with the ELITE and
HERETIC Keywords. If 2 or more eligible models are equally close to the
Wretched, you can choose which receives the BLESSING MARKER.
Law of Hell: If an attack made by a Wretched takes an enemy model with
the ELITE Keyword out of Action, the Wretched model gains its freedom
and is immediately removed from the game. It no longer counts as being
part of the Warband for the purposes of Morale Checks and is removed
from the Warband Roster.
Keywords 	HERETIC
EG
MF

-- 57 of 104 --

Heretic Naval Raiders	54
0-2 Anointed Heretic Raiders – Cost: 95 👑
Anointed Heretic Raiders are just as heavily armed and armoured as their shore-bound kin.
Their brutish strength and damned souls make them perfect first mates and bosuns. On the
ship they brutally enforce their captain’s word as law.
Movement 	Ranged 	Melee 	Armour 	Base
6”/Infantry 	+1 DICE 	+1 DICE 	-2 	32mm
Battlekit 	An Anointed Heretic Raider always has Reinforced Armour
and an Infernal Brand (▶ see Standard Battlekit in the Trench
Crusade Rulebook). This Battlekit cannot be removed or lost
throughout the campaign for any reason. The Injury Modifier
for the Armour is already included in the model’s profile
above. They can also have any Battlekit from the Heretic
Naval Raiders Armoury Tables.
Abilities 	None.
Keywords 	HERETIC, STRONG
0-1 Sea Hag – Cost: 100 👑
Just as Artillery Witches stalk the battlefields on land, Sea Hags hunt upon the waves.
They summon forth an endless tide of infernal sea mines to plague shipping and coastlines,
paralysing movement through even the mere rumour of their presence. It is unlikely that the
Heretics could have won so many naval victories without the baleful influence of the Sea Hags,
for their dreadful weapons have been the doom of many a proud fighting ship.
Movement 	Ranged 	Melee 	Armour 	Base
6”/Infantry 	+0 DICE 	-1 DICE 	0 	32mm
Battlekit 	A Sea Hag always has Infernal Bombs (▶ see the next page), and can have
any Battlekit from the Heretic Naval Raiders Armoury Tables except for
Ranged Weapons or Grenades. A Sea Hag may upgrade its Infernal Bombs
to Infernal Mines for 10 👑.
Abilities 	Abiotic Life: Add -1 INJURY DICE for a Sea Hag that has been hit by
an attack with the GAS Keyword.
Levitate: You do not have to take a Risky Success Roll for a Sea Hag when
they Climb or Jump, nor make an Injury Roll if they Fall.
Keywords 	HERETIC, ARTIFICIAL, NEGATE FEAR, NEGATE GAS
MF
MM

-- 58 of 104 --

Heretic Naval Raiders	55
Infernal Bomb
Type 	Range 	Keywords
1-Handed 	36” 	BLAST 3”, IGNORE COVER, IGNORE
ELEVATED POSITION, IGNORE LONG
RANGE, RELOAD, SCATTER, SHRAPNEL
Duck: Add -1 INJURY DICE to the roll for a model that is hit by an Infernal Bomb if it
is in contact with a terrain piece that is at least ½” tall and that lies in between it and the
target point.
Infernal Strike: If a model was the target for an Infernal Bomb and hit by it, or if an
Infernal Bomb scatters and the target point lands on a model’s base, apply the effect of
the DEADLY Keyword to the Injury Roll for the model. Injury Rolls for other models
caught in the Infernal Bomb’s BLAST are made normally.
Mighty Explosion: If a model that has been hit by an Infernal Bomb is not taken Out
of Action by the Injury Roll, it is blown back D3” in a straight line by the explosion.
Roll separately for each model to see how far it is blown by an Infernal Bomb. If the
model was the target of the attack, it is blown directly away from the Sea Hag. If
the model was caught in the Blast of the weapon, it is blown directly away from
the target point. The model stops if it is blown into another model, Impassable
terrain, or terrain it cannot cross without having to Climb.
Infernal Mine: If the Infernal Mine upgrade has been taken, after rolling
for scatter, an Infernal Bomb can be left in place to be detonated
later by the close proximity of an enemy model or at the
option of the player controlling the Sea Hag. Leave an
appropriate marker on the spot where the bomb
landed. If an enemy model finishes a move
within 3” of an Infernal Mine marker, you can
interrupt its Activation and detonate the
mine. If an unexploded Infernal Mine is on
the battlefield at the beginning of the Sea
Hag’s activation it can be detonated with a
Detonate ACTION. When the Infernal Mine
is detonated, resolve it as an Infernal Bomb (▶ see
above). A Sea Hag may have only 1 Infernal
Mine marker in play at any one time.
MF

-- 59 of 104 --

Heretic Naval Raiders	56
ª– Warband Variants –≠
The Drowned Choir
Drawn together by their haunting dirges,
some Drowned Choristers can come to
sing together to the peril of all. The cries of
Drowned Choristers resound through the
deeps and haunt the dreams of sleepers too
near the shore. Many are driven to madness
by the Drowned Choir’s calls, and those who
hurl them selves into the deeps are bound to
serve them forever more. On occasion driven
by chance, design, or by desire, on moonless
nights an unholy triumvirate of them may
be drawn together across countless leagues
of trackless ocean. Their combined chorus
draws all who heed their call into the briny
depths, to slave and serve forever. When
such warbands form they are fey and
wayward, moving back and forth with the
currents of tide and storm to no plan or
reasoning of mortal mind. Over time there
is a danger that a Drowned Choir can
merge fully into a conjoined entity known
as a Leviathal Chorus, but such occurrences
are mercifully rare.
THE DROWNED CHOIR SPECIAL RULES
The following special rules apply to a Drowned Choir Warband.
A Song Within the Deep: Drowned Choir Warbands must include 1-3 Drowned
Choristers. In addition, 1 Drowned Chorister must take the Leviathal Chorus upgrade
at a cost of 20 👑. The Drowned Chorister with the Leviathal Chorus upgrade increases
its base size to 40mm, has the LEADER and TOUGH Keywords, and replaces their
Unholy Hymns ability with the Dread Harmony ability.
Dread Harmony: All Success Rolls made by enemy models within 8” of a Leviathal
Chorus become Risky Success Rolls (there is no additional effect if they are Risky
Success Rolls already).
A Wretched Chorus: Wretched models in a Drowned Choir cost 30 👑 and have a Melee
Characteristic of +0 DICE. Wretched models within 8” of any number of Drowned
Chorister or Leviathal Chorus models have a Melee Characteristic of +1 DICE instead
of +0 DICE.
Mounting Madness: Increase the range of a Drowned Chorister’s Unholy Hymns Ability
by +4” if it is within 8” of another friendly Drowned Chorister or Leviathal Chorus.
To No Purpose Save Their Own: Drowned Choir Warbands cannot include any of the
following models: Heretic Captain, Abyssal Commando, Sea Hag, Anointed Heretic
Raiders.
MF

-- 60 of 104 --

Heretic Naval Raiders	57
The Leviathan Shoal
The most bloodthirsty Raider Captains can
fall into the worship of mighty Leviathan
itself, the great beast of oceans and once
the Hell Prince of Envy, now cast down
and cruelly bound. The Leviathan Shoal
mercilessly slaughters the weakest of their
numbers so that only the strongest survive.
They sacrifice flesh and blood in Leviathan’s
name, and they adopt the shark as their
totem, holding that they are heralds and
offspring of the great beast and that they
share its immortal strength and bottomless
hunger. Indeed, great shoals of sharks follow
the ships of the Leviathan Shoal everywhere
in hungry anticipation, for the warbands
of the Leviathan Shoal are infamous for
their brutality and terror, slaughtering all
they capture. Ever eager to come to blows in
physical combat, guns exhibit little allure for
them. They cannibalise the flesh of the dead,
friend and foe alike, growing fat on their
vile feasting and tossing the remnants to the
ever-present sharks that roil in their crimson
wake. In lean times they will turn on another
without thought, victor feasting on the
vanquished, for they believe only the strongest
deserve to thrive and a mortal life can only be
kept intact by one strong and savage enough
to protect it.
THE LEVIATHAN SHOAL SPECIAL RULES
The following special rules apply to a Leviathan Shoal Warband.
Only the Strong Survive: Leviathan Shoal Warbands can include 0-4 Anointed Heretic
Raiders, and up to 1 can be recruited with the ELITE Keyword at no extra cost. In
addition, Heretic Captains in this Warband have the STRONG Keyword, but it cannot
include any Drowned Choristers, Wretched, or Sea Hags.
Charge and Rend: The models in a Leviathan Shoal Warband cannot have more Ranged
Weapons than Melee Weapons. If they ever do, you must remove Ranged Weapons from
the Warband Roster until there are no more Ranged Weapons than Melee Weapons.
In addition, models in this Warband cannot have Ranged Weapons with the HEAVY
Keyword, Sacrificial Blades in this Warband are Limit: 4, and may be purchased for
Anointed Heretic Raider models.
Feeding Frenzy: Add +1 DICE to Success Rolls for Melee Attacks made by models from
a Leviathan Shoal Warband for each model (friend or foe) with 1 or more BLOOD
MARKERS within 1” of the model making the Melee Attack, to a maximum of +3 DICE.
Chosen Sons: The first time in a game that an Anointed Heretic Raider in a Leviathan
Shoal Warband takes an enemy model Out of Action with a Melee Attack, that Anointed
Heretic Raider gains the TOUGH Keyword for the rest of the game.
MM

-- 61 of 104 --

Mercenary	58
MF

-- 62 of 104 --

Mercenary	59
Movement 	Ranged 	Melee 	Armour 	Base
6”/Infantry 	+0 DICE 	+1 DICE 	-1 	32mm
Battlekit 	A Combat Biologist always has Standard armour, Gas Grenades, a Gas
Mask, and a Vivisector (▶ see below).
Abilities 	Battlefield Vivisection: Whenever a Combat Biologist is part of your
Warband, add the Gather Knowledge Glorious Deed to those normally
available in each scenario you play.
Gather Knowledge: You complete this Glorious Deed if 3 or more
enemy models are taken Out of Action while they are within 1” of a
friendly Combat Biologist.
Prize Specimens: When a Combat Biologist takes an enemy model with
the DEMONIC and/or BLACK GRAIL Keyword Out of Action with a
Melee attack, place 1 BLESSING MARKER beside the Combat Biologist.
Keywords 	NEGATE FEAR
Vivisector
This weapon offers excellent protection by keeping targets at bay and its haft incorporates a
trigger that injects a horrifying cocktail of holy ointments, chemical toxins, nerve agents and
micro-shards of holy relics into any open wound, causing pain that is unbearable to even
supernatural enemies. It can also be used to dissect fallen enemies rapidly so their organs can be
preserved by the Combat Biologist.
Type 	Range 	Keywords
2-Handed 	Melee 	BLOCK, CUMBERSOME
Inflict Pain: If an attack made by this weapon is a Critical Success and the target is
not taken Out of Action, is mounted on a base of 40mm or less and does not have the
ARTIFICIAL Keyword, then it will recoil D3” in a straight line directly away from the
attacking model. It will stop if it recoils into a friendly model, Impassable terrain, a terrain
piece that it cannot cross without having to Climb, or immediately before it would move
within 1” of an enemy model other than the attacker. If the target model recoils more
than 1” from the attacking model, then the attacking model and any other models within
1” of the target model can make an additional Melee Attack on it before it is moved, as
if it were carrying out a retreat move. If this causes the model to recoil a second time, add
D3” to the distance it recoils but do not attack it again.
Pain Amplifier: Lower the roll needed to achieve a Critical Success for a Melee Attack
made by this weapon by 1 for each BLOOD MARKER next to the target. For example,
an enemy with 1 BLOOD MARKER will suffer a Critical Success on a roll of 11+.
A Combat Biologist is Faithful and can be
recruited as a Mercenary by New Antioch
and Iron Sultanate Warbands.
Faith is not a passive instrument in the
theatre of the Great War. Rather, it is
one that is constantly being strengthened,
sharpened by knowledge and experience. For
the Faithful, Combat Biologists are one of the
many whetstones upon which this sharpening
occurs, travelling to the miseries of No Man’s
Land to capture the enemies of the Almighty,
or yield as much data as possible from their
corpses. This research helps to manufacture
new weapons to turn against the foes of the
Church and the Iron Sultanate, with no
sinner or hellbeast beyond the reach of the
Combat Biologist’s toxin-laced vivisector.
Combat Biologists are members of the
Pontifical Office of Biological Warfare, or in
the case of the Iron Sultanate, the Al-Bisţāmī
School of Ninety-Nine Names, which trains
failed alchemist apprentices in a similar
fashion. These scholars specialise in battlefield
vivisections and collecting samples of the
most powerful servants of Hell so they can be
studied, in the perpetual hope of finding ways
to develop new weapons capable of driving the
creatures of the Pit back into the darkness.
Due to their training, hypnotic conditioning
and constant exposure to captured
specimens, the Combat Biologist enters a
battle trance when faced with creatures
that normally induce fear in ordinary
troopers. They wield vivisectors – polearm
blade weapons that combine sophisticated
biological warfare agents and the functional
brutality of trench warfare.
0-1 Combat Biologist – Cost: 3 👑
merCenAry

-- 63 of 104 --

Scenarios & Terrain	60
sCenArios 	& TerrAin
This section of the Carcass Front book has rules for the terrain
pieces included in the Carcass Front box, 5 new scenarios, and
a system that can be used to randomly generate Trench Crusade
scenarios.
Carcass Front Terrain Pieces
This section includes rules for two different terrain pieces that you
can use in any of your Trench Crusade games: four explosive Naval
Mines and eight imposing Levant Hedgehogs.
Carcass Front Scenarios
This section includes 5 scenarios, each of which is set in one of the
most significant locations in the narrative around the raising of
Leviathan. The scenarios are used in the Carcass Front Campaign
(▶ see page 80) and in the Path to Leviathan narrative campaign
(▶ see page 88), and can also be used for a one-off game by
experienced players who are looking for a new challenge.
PATH TO LEVIATHAN CONSEQUENCES
Each scenario includes a short explanation of how the outcome
of the scenario will effect any future scenarios that are played as
part of a Path to Leviathan campaign. These are referred to as
the ‘consequences’ of the scenario, and they only apply if the
scenario is used as part of a Path to Leviathan campaign –
ignore them at all other times.
Scenario Generator
This section has rules for creating scenarios by rolling on a set of
scenario generation tables. Randomly generated scenarios are used
in the Carcass Front Campaign (▶ see page 80), and can also be
used in a standard campaign or for one-off games.
New Players Read This!
If you are new to Trench Crusade, we recommend that you use the
Claim No Man’s Land scenario included in the Trench Crusade
Rulebook for your first couple of games, and then play a few more
games using the Scenario Generator rules. Once you have played
half a dozen or so games like this, you will be more than ready
to play any of the other scenarios from this book or the Trench
Crusade Rulebook.
MF

-- 64 of 104 --

Scenarios & Terrain	61
Carcass Front Terrain Piece Rules
LEVANT HEDGEHOG
The so-called Levant Hedgehog was first created as an improvised
form of defence during the Year of the Broken Trinity, when
Heretic armoured forces came close to overrunning the entirety
of the Levant. Levant Hedgehogs are simple welded crosspieces of
steel beams or rails large enough to impale or foul the running gear
of vehicles. They were inspired by earlier cavalry countermeasures
like caltrops and chevaux de frise, scaled up to match the new
mechanised enemies of the day. Being easy to place and virtually
indestructible to artillery fire, rusting Levant Hedgehogs now litter
the battlefields of Europe and Africa.
Levant Hedgehog Terrain Rules
Levant Hedgehogs are a variety of terrain common to the Decimated
Ruins, No Man’s Land, and Trench Lines battlefield archetypes.
Individual Levant Hedgehogs provide cover, are Dangerous terrain
to vehicles and models with Machine Armour, and Difficult terrain
to all other models. It is common practice to link two or more Levant
Hedgehogs together with coils of barbed wire between them – the
barbed wire acts as Linear Dangerous terrain to all models.
NAVAL MINE
Countless naval mines have been laid by both sides over the course
of the Great War against Hell. Heretic Raiders delight in dropping
naval mines along the most likely sea routes, while the Faithful use
them to help protect harbours and coasts from the incessant scourge
of the Heretic navy. Mines that have broken free of their restraining
chains and washed ashore are a common sight along many coasts,
and the ready availability of naval mines means they are often co-
opted as land mines for building defensive lines far from the sea.
Naval Mine Terrain Rules
Naval mines are a variety of terrain well suited to the Decimated
Ruins, No Man’s Land, and Trench Lines battlefield archetypes,
especially those that include beaches or riverbanks. Individual
naval mines are Impassable terrain to all models and provide a
somewhat risky form of cover. Models with the Defuse Mine ability
or NEGATE MINED Keyword treat a naval mines as if it had the
MINED Keyword.
Models can choose a naval mine as the target of a Ranged Attack or
a Melee Attack as if it were an enemy model. If they do so, the attack
is assumed to automatically hit the mine, which may then explode as
described next (do not make an Injury Roll for the mine). Note that
a naval mine cannot be chosen as the target for a charge move.
When a naval mine is subject to attack, whether deliberate or
accidental, there is a chance that it will explode. The following
things may cause the mine to explode: Ranged Attacks or Melee
Attacks directed against a naval mine, an attack on a model in cover
behind a naval mine that is a critical success, or an attack from a
BLAST that includes the naval mine in its blast radius. After the
result of an attack that may trigger the mine has been resolved
against another other targets that it effects, roll 2D6 and look up
the total in the following table:
Roll 	Result
2-6 	The naval mine does not explode now, but you must
roll again if any future attack potentially triggers the
mine.
7-11 	The naval mine is jostled enough to set off a rusty fuse
timer making detonation imminent. Roll a D6 and
place it by the naval mine. From now on, each time a
player finishes an Activation with one of their models,
they must reduce the number showing on the D6 by
1. When the D6 reaches zero the mine explodes as
described below.
12 	The mine explodes immediately.
Naval Mine Explosions
When a mine explodes it has the following effect:
Type 	Range 	Keywords
Special 	- 	BLAST D6”, IGNORE COVER, SHRAPNEL
Bad Hiding Spot: If a model was in contact with the naval mine
when it explodes, apply the effect of the DEADLY Keyword
to the Injury Roll for the model. Injury Rolls for other models
caught in the naval mine’s BLAST are made normally.
Duck: Add -1 INJURY DICE to the roll for a model that is hit by
a naval mine’s blast if it is in contact with a terrain piece that is
at least ½” tall and that lies in between the model and the naval
mine (not including the mine itself ).
Mighty Explosion: If a model that has been hit by a naval mine
explosion is not taken Out of Action by the Injury Roll, it is
blown away D3” in a straight line directly away from the naval
mine. Roll separately for each model to see how far it is blown
away by the explosion. The model stops if it is blown into
another model, Impassable terrain, or terrain it cannot cross
without having to Climb.
MK

-- 65 of 104 --

Scenarios & Terrain	62
Ⅰ º The Ruins of Nineveh Novus
We see them, the scavengers and zealots, hungry to claim sacred
knowledge clawed from the heights of Heaven and the depths of Hell.
If only they knew what had been wrought here, what curse was laid
upon this city, they would flee in terror, for the wrath of Heaven and
Hell still hungers…
-Ashur, Epistoliary Majoris of Nineveh Novus
Warbands push through sandstorms and into the exposed ruins of
Nineveh Novus, hunting buried scrolls and tablets rumoured to
hold the power to summon and bind Leviathan. In the dark and
narrow chambers below, every corridor is contested ground, and
each step risks uncovering secrets no mortal was meant to know.
Path to Leviathan Consequences
The Warband that wins Scenario I: The Ruins of Nineveh Novus
gains a bonus to summoning Leviathan in the final scenario of the
campaign, Scenario V: The Altar of Leviathan.
FORCES
No special restrictions apply to the models the players can include
in their Forces in this scenario.
THE BATTLEFIELD
The players roll-off and the winner sets up the terrain for the game.
This scenario uses the Decimated Ruins battlefield archetype. For
this scenario, the more ruined buildings creating narrow corridors
and corners the better the game will be.
Search Markers
After the terrain has been set up, the players must set up 6 Search
Markers. The players alternate setting up the Markers, one at
a time, starting with the player who set up the terrain. Search
Markers must be set up more than 8” from the Deployment
Zones, more than 6” away from any other Search Markers and
more than 1” from Impassable terrain. Uncovering Markers: Roll
a D6 and look up the roll on the Search Table on the next page if a
friendly model finishes a move within 1” of a Search Marker. The
Search Marker is removed after anything revealed by the search
has been set up. The player who rolled on the Search Table can
then carry on with their model’s Activation.
Search Table
Roll 	Result
1 	The area is empty – nothing is revealed.
2 	The search reveals 2 Ancient Tablet Markers.
3-4 	The search reveals 3 Ancient Tablet Markers and 1
Lunatic Monk.
5-6 	The search reveals 4 Ancient Tablet Markers and 2
Lunatic Monks.
Ancient Tablets: Ancient Tablet Markers are set up within 1” of
the Search Marker by the player who did not roll on the Search
Table. They can be set up in contact with or even underneath a
model if desired.
Lunatic Monk: Lunatic Monks are represented by an unkempt
and suitably monk-like model (▶ see the special rules for Lunatic
Monks on the next page). If no suitable models are available,
represent them with markers. Lunatic Monks are set up within 3”
of the Search Marker by the player who did not roll on the Search
Table. They can be set up within 1” or in contact with a Warband
model or another Lunatic Monk if desired, but cannot be set up
on top of another model.
DEPLOYMENT
The players roll-off. The winner of the roll-off chooses which Deploy-
ment Zone will be theirs. The other Deployment Zone is their oppo-
nent’s. The players then alternate deploying their models one at a time,
starting with the player who has more models in their Warband (roll-
off if both players have the same number of models). Models must be
set up wholly within their own Deployment Zone. If a player runs out
of models to set up, the other player sets up all their remaining models,
one after another until they have none left. Once the players have set
up their models, deployment ends and the game begins.
Infiltrators
Infiltrators can deploy normally or by using their special
deployment rules. However, if they deploy using their special
deployment rules, they cannot deploy within 6” of a Search Marker.
ANCIENT TABLETS
These ancient tablets contain sorceries and rites needed to conduct
the summoning ritual to call forth Leviathan.
Claim ACTION: A model that is within 1” of any Ancient
Tablet Markers can take a Claim ACTION. If it does so, take up
to 2 Ancient Tablet Markers that are within 1” of the model and
place them in contact with the model’s base to show it is carrying
them (no Success Roll is required). A model can carry up to 2
Ancient Tablet Markers at the same time.
Carrying Ancient Tablets: The only thing a model that is carrying
a single tablet can do is Claim another ancient tablet, take Move
or Retreat ACTIONS, or a Fight ACTION using a 1-Handed
Melee or Ranged Weapon. If a model is carrying 2 tablets, it can
only take Move or Retreat ACTIONS.
DEPLOYMENT ZONE
24’’
DEPLOYMENT ZONE

-- 66 of 104 --

Scenarios & Terrain	63
At the end of its Activation, you can say that a model carrying
an Ancient Tablet Marker will either drop it or hand it to a
friendly model within 1”. If it has 2 Ancient Tablet Markers,
it can drop or hand over one or both of them. When a model
drops a tablet, place it within 1” of the model and not in
contact with any other models. When a model hands over a
tablet, place the Ancient Tablet Marker(s) in contact with the
other model’s base.
If a model carrying a tablet is taken Down or Out of Action,
it immediately drops the Ancient Tablet Marker(s) as
described above.
If a model carrying a tablet finishes its Activation in its own
Deployment Zone and on contact with the edge of the
battlefield, it can escape with the tablets it’s carrying. Remove
the model and the Ancient Tablet Markers from the battlefield.
The model is still considered part of the Warband for the
purposes of Morale Checks.
LUNATIC MONKS
Every time a Search Marker is uncovered, there’s a chance that
the area may reveal the presence of one or more Lunatic Monks
guarding its secrets.
Neutral Model Activation Rolls
Lunatic Monks are neutral models. Neutral models are treated as
enemy models by both sides. In addition, when a player finishes an
Activation with one of their models, they must take a Neutral Model
Activation Roll by rolling a D6. If they roll a 1-4, they can Activate a
Lunatic Monk of their choice. They cannot Activate a Lunatic Monk
that has already been Activated (by either player). Once all Lunatic
Monks have been Activated during a Turn, stop making Neutral
Model Activation Rolls until the following Turn or if any more
Lunatic Monks are revealed by a search. When a player Activates a
Lunatic Monk, they must carry out an Activation with it using the
rules below. If a player runs out of models from their own Warband
to Activate and there are still Lunatic Monks remaining to Activate,
they must still make Neutral Model Activation Rolls. In the event
that any Lunatic Monks remain to be Activated after both players
have finished Activating models from their Warband, roll-off for
each one – the winner must Activate the model.
Lunatic Monk Actions
When a player Activates a Lunatic Monk, it will choose a model
as its prey. The Lunatic Monk’s prey is determined by using the
following list of priorities:
If there are any models carrying one or more Ancient Tablets,
the Lunatic Monk will choose the closest as its prey. If 2 or more
models are equally close, the player who Activated the Lunatic
Monk can choose which model is its prey.
If there are no models carrying Ancient Tablets, it will choose the
closest model as its prey. If 2 or more models are equally close, the
player who Activated can choose which model is its prey.
Ignore other Lunatic Monk models when working out a Lunatic
Monk’s prey.
After determining the Lunatic Monk’s prey, the player who
Activated the model must take 1 Move ACTION, and either 1
Dash ACTION or 1 Fight ACTION with the Lunatic Monk. The
ACTIONS are carried out in the following way:
When the Lunatic Monk moves, it must move towards its prey
so that it finishes either in base contact with it or, if that is
impossible, as close to its prey as possible. The Lunatic Monk can
use the Move ACTION to move within 1” of its prey and does
not need to use a Charge ACTION.
If the Lunatic Monk is in contact with its prey after taking a
move, it will take a Fight ACTION. If it is not in contact with its
prey after it takes a move, it will take a Dash ACTION and move
towards its prey as described above.
When the Lunatic Monk makes a Fight ACTION, all of its
attacks must target its prey.
When a Lunatic Monk takes a Dash ACTION it will move
towards its prey as described above.
If the Lunatic Monk is within 1” of its prey when it is Activated,
it will take a Fight ACTION. If the attack takes the prey Out of
Action, choose new prey, then move the Lunatic Monk towards
it as described above.
Lunatic Monk
Unnaturally long-lived scholars, driven mad by their doom, still linger
amidst the ruins, twisted into deranged lunatics by the unleashed
cataclysm.
Movement 	Ranged 	Melee 	Armour 	Base
8”/Infantry 	- 	+1 DICE 	0 	25mm
Battlekit 	A Lunatic Monk always has an Antique Blade. It
cannot have any other Battlekit.
Abilities 	Antique Blade: When you make an Injury Roll
for an attack made by a Lunatic Monk, you must
spend any BLOOD MARKERS the target has
to add Injury Dice to the roll, and, if possible, you
must convert the Injury Roll into a Bloodbath
Roll (▶ see the Trench Crusade Rulebook).
Keywords 	None.
Antique Blade
Type 	Range 	Keywords
2-Handed 	Melee 	+2 INJURY DICE, RISKY
MF

-- 67 of 104 --

Scenarios & Terrain	64
THE CURSE OF NINEVEH
The warding sorceries that once protected Nineveh Novus still
maintain the city’s secrets after a fashion, despite its original
inhabitants’ demise. Their cursing power lingers in the dusty air,
invisible to the naked eye, seeping from corridor to corridor, burning
lungs, blinding eyes, bursting eardrums, and setting ablaze the skin
of those who do not possess the proper bloodline, or the forgotten
sigils of protection carved beneath the skin by the sorcerers of old.
This magic cannot be stopped, neither by clothing nor armour.
The Curse of Nineveh is an expanding circle of cursed magic that
spreads from the midpoint of the battlefield. At the start of each
Turn, the Curse of Nineveh expands its radius by 4”. Thus, on the
first turn it will affect everywhere within 4” of the midpoint of the
battlefield, on the second Turn it will affect everywhere within 8” of
the midpoint, on the third within 12” of the midpoint, and so on.
When a player activates a Warband model that is fully or partially
within the area affected by the Curse of Nineveh, they must
place +1 BLOOD MARKER beside the model. In addition, add
+1 DICE to Injury Rolls for models that are fully or partially
within the area affected by the Curse of Nineveh when the Injury
Roll is made. Lunatic Monks are not affected in any way by the
Curse of Nineveh.
GAME LENGTH
This scenario lasts six Turns, or until one side has no models left on
the battlefield.
VICTORY CONDITIONS
A player wins this scenario immediately if the opposing Warband
flees, typically due to failing a Morale Check. Otherwise, the player
with more Victory Points (VPs) at the end of the game is the winner.
Victory Points
At the end of the game each player scores:
1 VP for each Ancient Tablet that is being carried by a friendly
model.
2 VPs for each Ancient Tablet that was being carried by a friendly
model that escaped the battlefield.
2 VPs for each Lunatic Monk a friendly model takes Out of Action.
1 VP for each Glorious Deed a friendly model completes.
GLORIOUS DEEDS
Doomed: A friendly model takes an enemy model Out of Action
with a Bloodbath Roll while within the area affected by the Curse
of Nineveh.
Doom Seeker: A friendly model takes a Lunatic Monk model Out
of Action while within the area affected by the Curse of Nineveh.
Lunacy: A friendly model takes at least 2 Lunatic Monks Out of
Action.
Officium Ante Mortem: A friendly model picks up 2 Ancient
Tablet Markers that are within the area affected by the Curse of
Nineveh.
Tomb Raider: A friendly model takes an enemy model carrying
any Ancient Tablet Markers Out of Action and then escapes the
battlefield carrying the tablets.
Always the thirst of sacred knowledge without heeding the cost of
its earning. Prophets and monsters who think themselves sagacious
plunder our wisdom, but they are idiot children playing with the very
tools of Creation, heedless of the consequences! Long will they rue the
plunder of Nineveh Novus!
-Shamiram, Celestial Diviner of Nineveh Novus
MF

-- 68 of 104 --

Scenarios & Terrain	65
ⅠⅠ º Domus Demetrius
The dead are everywhere: mountains of severed limbs, piles of heads,
lakes of blood and worse. The air is poisoned with the reek of opened
bowels and bloated bellies. Drifting veils of myrrh seek to purify it, but
neither that nor the blessed gas masks can keep the greasy miasma of a
million corpses from my mouth.
-Lieutenant Hartley, 203rd Demetrian Guard
A breach in the Corpse Rails has brought enemy forces into the
Domus Demetrius. Among rusted cranes and rising mounds of
the dead, warbands clash over the rotting souls of those long, or
soon to be, gone.
Path to Leviathan Consequences
The Warband that wins Scenario II: Domus Demetrius gains
a bonus to summoning Leviathan in the final scenario of the
campaign, Scenario V: The Altar of Leviathan.
FORCES
No special restrictions apply to the models the players can include
in their Forces in this scenario.
THE BATTLEFIELD
The players roll-off and the winner sets up the terrain for the game.
This scenario uses the Decimated Ruins battlefield archetype. In
this scenario, the more ruined buildings that are used to create tight
corridors and corners the better the game will be.
Extraction Zones
The areas marked with an EZ shown on the map represent
Extraction Zones. Each EZ is 3” by 3”. Other terrain pieces and
markers cannot be set up within 3” of an Extraction Zone. If you
have one, we recommend placing a piece of terrain like a large door,
portal or tunnel entrance, or something similar, at the EZ locations
to represent each extraction point.
Corpse Mound Markers
The Markers shown on the map rep-
resent Corpse Mounds. The Markers
are 3” in diameter and count as Diffi-
cult terrain. Other terrain pieces can-
not be set up within 1” of a Corpse
Mound Marker. You can download a
set of Corpse Mound Markers from
the Trench Crusade website that you
can print out and stick to cardboard.
DEPLOYMENT
The players roll-off. The winner of the roll-off chooses which
Deployment Zone will be theirs. The other Deployment Zone is
their opponent’s. The players then alternate deploying their models
one at a time, starting with the player who has more models in
their Warband (roll-off if both players have the same number
of models). Models must be set up wholly within their own
Deployment Zone. If a player runs out of models to set up, the
other player sets up all their remaining models, one after another
until they have none left. Once the players have set up their
models, deployment ends and the game begins.
Infiltrators
Infiltrators can deploy normally or up to 4” away from a
Deployment Zone.
CORPSE MOUNDS
The corpse mounds rise to the roof, slick with rot. Beneath them,
bone snaps and flesh tears – something is feeding.
Each Corpse Mound contains 6 Coveted Corpses. We recommend
that you keep track of how many corpses have been taken from each
mound by putting a dice on top of the marker. A Corpse Mound with
no more Coveted Corpses left is still considered as Difficult terrain.
Search Mound ACTION: A model that is on or within 1” of a
Corpse Mound Marker can take a Search Mound ACTION. If it
does so, take a Success Roll for the model. If the roll is a Failure,
nothing happens (another model can try to search the mound
later in the same Turn). If the roll is a Success or Critical Success,
D6 Coveted Corpses Markers are revealed. Place the Coveted
Corpse Markers on or within 1” of the Corpse Mound Marker.
If any of the Coveted Corpses were not revealed in a search, the
Mound can be searched again in a future Turn or by another
model until no more corpses can be found.
Claim Corpse ACTION: A model that is within 1” of a Coveted
Corpse Marker can take a Claim Corpse ACTION. No Success
Roll is needed. If it does so, the model is considered to be
carrying the corpse.
Carrying Corpses: Put the Coveted Corpse Marker in contact with
the model’s base to show it is carrying it. The only thing a model
carrying a corpse can do is take Move or Retreat ACTIONS – it
cannot do anything else while carrying the corpse.
At the end of its Activation, you can say that a model carrying
a corpse will either drop it or hand it to a friendly model that is
within 1”. When a model drops the corpse, place the Coveted
Corpse Marker within 1” of the model and not in contact with
any other models. When a model hands the corpse on, place the
Coveted Corpse Marker in contact with the other model’s base.
24’’
8’’
8’’
DEPLOYMENT
ZONE
12’’
EZ
EZ
EZ	EZ
DEPLOYMENT
ZONE
DEPLOYMENT
ZONE
DEPLOYMENT
ZONE
MK
EG

-- 69 of 104 --

Scenarios & Terrain	66
If a model carrying a corpse is taken Down or Out of Action, it
immediately drops the corpse as described on the previous page.
If a model carrying a corpse finishes its Activation on any of
the Extraction Zones of the battlefield, it extracts the corpse.
Remove the Coveted Corpse Marker from the battlefield and
put it aside (▶ see Victory Points on the next page). The model
remains on the battlefield.
CARRION FEEDERS
The muffled sound of screeching comes from somewhere deep
amidst the piles of corpses.
Every time a Corpse Mound is searched, regardless of the outcome,
the player must then determine if their search attracts the attention
of the bestial Carrion Feeders hidden amidst the corpses. Each time
a Mound is searched, roll another D6. On a roll of 5-6, a Carrion
Feeder appears.
If a Carrion Feeder appears, the players roll-off and the winner
can set up the Carrion Feeder model within 3” of the centre of
the Corpse Mound and at least 1” away from any models. Carrion
Feeders are neutral models (▶ see below). Each Carrion Feeder can
be represented by a zombie or werewolf-like model. If no suitable
models are available, represent them with Markers.
Neutral Model Activation Rolls
Carrion Feeders are neutral models. Neutral models are treated as
enemy models by both sides. In addition, when a player finishes
an Activation with one of their models, they must take a Neutral
Model Activation Roll by rolling a D6. If they roll a 1-4, they can
Activate a Carrion Feeder of their choice. They cannot Activate a
Carrion Feeder that has already been Activated (by either player).
Once all Carrion Feeders have been Activated during a Turn, stop
making Neutral Model Activation Rolls until the following Turn or
if any more Carrion Feeders are revealed by a search.
When a player Activates a Carrion Feeder, they must carry out
an Activation with it using the rules below. If a player runs out
of models from their own Warband to Activate and there are
still Carrion Feeders remaining to Activate, they must still make
Neutral Model Activation Rolls. In the event that any Carrion
Feeders remain to be Activated after both players have finished
Activating models from their Warband, roll-off for each one and
the winner must Activate the model.
Carrion Feeder Actions
When a player Activates a Carrion Feeder, it will choose the closest
Coveted Corpse Marker or model as its prey. If 2 or more models
are equally close, the player who Activated the Carrion Feeder can
choose which model is its prey. A Carrion Feeder will not pick
other Carrion Feeders as its prey.
After determining the Carrion Feeder’s prey, the player who
Activated the model must take 1 Move ACTION, and either 1
Dash ACTION or 1 Fight ACTION or 1 Feed ACTION with the
Carrion Feeder. The ACTIONS are carried out in the following way.
When the Carrion Feeder moves, it must move towards its
prey so that it finishes either in base contact with it, or if that is
impossible, as close to its prey as possible. The Carrion Feeder can
use the Move ACTION to move within 1” of its prey and does
not need to use a Charge ACTION.
If the Carrion Feeder is in contact with its prey after taking a
move, it will take a Fight ACTION if the prey is a model, or a
Feed ACTION if it is not. If it is not in contact with its prey
after it takes a move, it will take a Dash ACTION and move
towards its prey as described in the left column of this page.
When the Carrion Feeder takes a Fight ACTION, all of its
attacks must target its prey.
When the Carrion Feeder takes a Feed ACTION, the Coveted
Corpse Marker that is its prey is removed from the battlefield.
If the Carrion Feeder is within 1” of its prey when it is Activated,
it will take a Fight ACTION. If the attack takes the prey Out
of Action, choose new prey and then move the Carrion Feeder
towards it as described in the left column of this page.
Carrion Feeder
Half-beast, half-man, Carrion Feeders have shed their human form
like sloughing off an old skin, revealing claws and beast heads beneath.
Plagued by parasites, and a never-ending hunger, they stalk No Man’s
Land in search of corpses – and make more when none are found.
Movement 	Ranged 	Melee 	Armour 	Base
8”/Infantry 	- 	+0 DICE 	-2 	25mm
Battlekit 	Carrion Feeders always have Maws (▶ see below).
They cannot have any other Battlekit.
Abilities 	Maws: A Carrion Feeder can make a Melee Attack
even though it does not have a Melee Weapon.
Whenever a Melee Attack made by a Carrion
Feeder causes 2 or more BLOOD MARKERS to
be placed on the target, it becomes frenzied. From
then on when it makes an Injury Roll, it must
spend any BLOOD MARKERS the target has to
add Injury Dice to the roll, and, if possible, it must
convert the Injury Roll into a Bloodbath Roll (▶ see
the Comprehensive Rules section for more details).
Keywords 	None.
Maws
Type 	Range 	Keywords
Special 	Melee 	+1 INJURY DICE
GD

-- 70 of 104 --

Scenarios & Terrain	67
GAME LENGTH
This scenario lasts six Turns.
VICTORY CONDITIONS
A player wins this scenario immediately if there are no enemy
models on the battlefield, or if the opposing Warband flees,
typically due to failing a Morale Check. Otherwise, the player with
more Victory Points at the end of the game is the winner.
Victory Points
At the end of the game each player scores 2 VPs for each Coveted
Corpse they extracted, and 1 VP for each Glorious Deed they
completed.
GLORIOUS DEEDS
Almost There: A friendly model takes an enemy model carrying a
corpse within 8” of an Extraction Zone Out of Action.
Becchini: A friendly model extracts 2 Coveted Corpses.
Bestial: A friendly model that has 3 or more BLOOD
MARKERS uses a Bloodbath Roll to take a Carrion Feeder
model Out of Action.
Bold: A friendly model extracts corpses through 2 different
Extraction Zones.
Corpse Lurker: A friendly model takes the Search Mound
ACTION twice during the game and takes at least 1 Carrion
Feeder Out of Action.
Resurrectionist: A friendly model takes an enemy model carrying
a corpse Out of Action and then extracts the Corpse Marker the
enemy model was carrying.
When I die, burn me to ash or leave me where I fall for the rats to
gnaw, for maggots to wriggle in my eyes. Better that than to be brought
to this hellish place, to have men who forsake humanity devour my
mortal remains. Throw my body into the path of shells and infernal
flame rather than be brought to the Body Barn.
-Yeoman Burke, 66th Auld Eidyn Battalion
MM

-- 71 of 104 --

Scenarios & Terrain	68
ⅠⅠⅠ º The Steel Necropolis
We got it easy, lads. All we gotta do is scavenge what we can from
some old tank graveyard the aeronauts pounded to scrap metal back
before Yeoman Caleb here was even born. Strip out some broken steel
and parts, then drag ’em back to New Antioch. That’s all we gotta do,
right? Just watch out for the diesel pilgrims, yapping on about some
tank god or summat…
-Captain Selwyn, 235th Whitecliff Dragoons
Warbands descend into the accursed mudflats to harvest the
fused holy and unholy metals needed to bind Leviathan. Among
drowned tanks and unexploded shells, they fight and scavenge over
the sodden grounds, dismembering rusted metals while adding new
bodies to the old graveyard, for the God of All Tanks gives with a
hand and claims with the fire of a thousand cannons.
Path to Leviathan Consequences
The Warband that wins Scenario III: The Steel Necropolis gains
a bonus to taking over control of the mighty railway cannon in
Scenario IV: The Sword of God
FORCES
No special restrictions apply to the models the players can include
in their Forces in this scenario.
THE BATTLEFIELD
The players roll-off and the winner sets up the terrain for the game.
This scenario uses the No Man’s Land battlefield archetype.
Tank Markers
Before the terrain is set up, the players must set up 6 Tank Markers.
The Tank Markers represent rusted tank wrecks spread throughout
the battlefield. Tank Markers can be represented by a wrecked tank
model or a rectangular piece of cardboard that is approximately
3” by 5” in size. Tank Markers are Difficult terrain. On the Trench
Crusade website you can download a set of Tank Markers that you
can print out and stick to cardboard.
The players alternate setting up
the Markers, one at a time, starting
with the player who won the roll-
off. Tank Markers must be set up
more than 4” from the Deployment
Zones, more than 4” away from any
other Tank Markers and more than
1” from Impassable terrain.
After these have been set up, the
rest of the terrain for the battle
should be added. Terrain pieces
cannot be set up under a Tank
Marker but can be placed in
contact with it.
DEPLOYMENT
The players roll-off. The winner of the roll-off chooses which
Deployment Zone will be theirs. The other Deployment Zone is
their opponent’s. The players then alternate deploying their models
one at a time, starting with the player who has more models in
their Warband (roll-off if both players have the same number
of models). Models must be set up wholly within their own
Deployment Zone. If a player runs out of models to set up, the
other player sets up all their remaining models, one after another
until they have none left. Once the players have set up their
models, deployment ends and the game begins.
INFILTRATORS
Infiltrators can deploy normally or by using their special deployment
rules. However, if they deploy using their special deployment rules,
they cannot deploy within 6” of any Tank Marker.
Wrecked Tanks
The amalgamation of infused holy and unholy metals that form
these old tank carcasses hold the almighty strength and Goetic
power needed to bring Leviathan ashore. Scrapping these tanks is
vital for the success of both Faithful and Fallen sides alike – but
some wrecks still retain the strength for one final shot, albeit at the
cost of their own destruction.
Scavenge ACTION: For this scenario, all models are considered
to be carrying backpacks or bags to store any metal scraps that
they scavenge. A model that is on or within 1” of a Tank Marker
can take a Scavenge ACTION. If it does so, take a Success Roll
for the model. If the roll is a Failure, place D3 Scrap Markers on
the Tank Marker. If the roll is a Success, place D6 Scrap Markers
on the Tank Marker. If it is a Critical Success, place D6 Scrap
Markers on the Tank Marker, and in addition the tank has one
last shell locked and loaded, and ready to fire.
Claim ACTION: A model that is within 1” of a Tank Marker
with 1 or more Scrap Markers can take a Claim ACTION. If it
does so, take up to 3 Scrap Markers from the Tank Marker and
place them in contact with the model’s base to show it is carrying
it (no Success Roll is required). A model can carry up to 3 Scrap
Markers at the same time. A model with the STRONG Keyword
can carry up to 5 Scrap Markers instead of only 3. If a model
carrying Scrap Markers is taken Out of Action, remove the model
from the battlefield but leave the Scrap Markers behind. They can
be claimed by a model that is within 1” of them.
DEPLOYMENT ZONE
24’’
DEPLOYMENT ZONE
EG
MK

-- 72 of 104 --

Scenarios & Terrain	69
Loaded Shells: If a Tank Marker has a loaded shell, it is treated
as if it were a Sultanate Grand Cannon stationary gun battery
with +3 Injury Dice, that can be used by any model but can only
be fired once. You can find the rules for the Sultanate Grand
Cannon in the Trench Crusade Rulebook.
THE GOD OF ALL TANKS
Pilgrim cults drawn by the divine diesel fumes roam the metal
necropolis, chanting mechanical hymnals to a bellowing Tank God
of iron and gasoline, of grinding tracks and shellfire. The Tank God
does not approve of trespassers coming into his lands and stealing
the corpses of his fallen children.
At the start of the 2nd and the 4th Turns, before any models have
been Activated, the Tank God will throw a tank wreck onto the
battlefield. The players roll-off and the loser must determine where
the wreck lands by dropping a Marker onto the battlefield from a
height of 24” above the centre of the table. We recommend that the
marker be made of paper to avoid it damaging any models when
it lands. The player must place the Marker flat on their hand, then
turn their hand over to let the marker flutter down naturally onto
the battlefield. This is where the wreck tank hits the battlefield. If it
flutters off the table, no wreck lands that Turn.
When the tank hits the battlefield, it immediately explodes as if
it were a model carrying a Sarcophagus Mine (▶ see the Trench
Crusade Rulebook). The player who dropped the Marker may
then place a suitable small or medium terrain piece (e.g. wreckage
or a crater) on the table where the tank landed. However, the new
terrain may not be placed in such a way that it will displace any
models or existing terrain piece. No terrain piece has to be placed,
and it may not be placed if the restriction noted above cannot
be fulfilled. The players then take it in turn to set up D6 Scrap
Markers within 6” of the landing point, starting with the player
who dropped the Marker. The Markers must be set up more than
1” from any models and each other.
GAME LENGTH
This scenario lasts six Turns.
VICTORY CONDITIONS
A player wins this scenario immediately if there are no
enemy models on the battlefield, or if the opposing Warband
flees, typically due to failing a Morale Check. Otherwise, the player
with more Victory Points at the end of the game is the winner.
Victory Points
At the end of each Turn, a player scores 1 VP for each Scrap
Metal Marker that a friendly model is carrying, and 1 VP for each
Glorious Deed they completed.
GLORIOUS DEEDS
Bloody Wrecker: A friendly model takes an enemy model
carrying any Scrap Markers Out of Action, and then claims the
Markers the enemy model was carrying.
Opportunist: A friendly model takes an enemy model within 1”
of a Tank Marker Out of Action.
Scavenger: A friendly model claims Scrap Markers from at least 3
different Tank Markers.
Scrap King: Finish the game with all friendly models that are still
on the Battlefield carrying at least 2 Scrap Markers each. The last
friendly model to claim a Scrap Marker gains the ☼.
Tanker: A friendly model takes at least 2 enemy models Out of
Action by firing a single shell from a Tank Marker.
Saw it with me own eyes, I did, sir. Can’t rightly describe it, no, because
it was just a shape in a fog of blue diesel fumes, but it was big, a bloody
colossus of grinding metal and guns. Still can’t hear right neither.
Sounded like a thousand engines running full-tilt, and it chucked
wrecked tank hulks at us like a fast bowler on the village green.
-Yeoman Whitlock, 235th Whitecliff Dragoons
MM

-- 73 of 104 --

Scenarios & Terrain	70
Ⅳ º The Sword of God
Guided by Allah the Most Merciful,
The Hands of Mortals wrought this cannon.
In service of Dunya, let its divine fire rain down.
The demons of Shaytān shall fall beneath this sword,
May its roar be as the muezzin calls to prayer.
Its shells will shake Jahannam’s foundations,
Uproot the Zaqqum tree,
And lay waste to all foes of Allah! Inshallah!
-Inscription upon the Sword of God
The Sword of God lies abandoned on the coastal tracks. Once a
gift from the Sultanate to New Antioch, it now sits silent and inert,
its Damascus-patterned barrel inlaid with the Seals of Solomon as
warbands of Faithful and Fallen war over its possession, praying it will
fire again. As the great gun moves along its ancient rails, warbands
clash atop its wagon, each desperate to claim this powerful relic.
Path to Leviathan Consequences
The Warband that wins Scenario IV: The Sword of God gains
control over the mighty railway cannon necessary to subdue
Leviathan, should the summoning succeed in the final scenario of
the campaign, Scenario V: The Altar of Leviathan.
If this scenario is being played as part of the Path to Leviathan
campaign, the winner of the Steel Necropolis scenario is named
the Scrap Lord. Each friendly model belonging to the Scrap Lord
counts as 2 models for the purposes of moving the Sword of God.
FORCES
No special restrictions apply to the models the players can include
in their Forces in this scenario.
THE BATTLEFIELD
The battlefield is 48” by 48” in size. The players roll-off and the
winner sets up the terrain for the game. This scenario uses the No
Man’s Land battlefield archetype.
The Railway & Wagons
When you start to set up the terrain for this battle, you must first
place the railway for the Wagons that transport the Sword of
God. The railway crosses the entirety of the middle section of the
battlefield and is 4” wide. The railway tracks are treated as Open
terrain. You can download a Sword of God Marker from the Trench
Crusade website that you can print out and stick to cardboard. The
Sword of God is mounted on the second of two connected Wagons.
The dimensions and starting location of the Wagons are shown on
the map. Each Wagon is 4” high and has ladders on both sides that
allow models to Climb the sides without having to take a Risky
Success Roll. Only models that are mounted on a base of 40mm or
less can Climb up onto the Wagons.
The top of the front Wagon is flat and treated as Open terrain. The
back Wagon has a Marker that represents the Sword of God’s gun
breach, placed in the centre of the Wagon. The Marker is 2” wide
and 4” long and is treated as Impassable terrain that blocks any
Line of Sight that crosses it. The rest of the top of the back Wagon
is treated as Open terrain. The Wagons and the Sword of God can
be represented by suitable models if you have any available. If you
do not, then they can be represented by flat pieces of card that have
been cut to the correct size.
DEPLOYMENT
The players roll-off. The winner of the roll-off chooses which
Deployment Zone will be theirs. The other Deployment Zone is
their opponent’s. The players then alternate deploying their models
one at a time, starting with the player who has more models in their
Warband (roll-off if both players have the same number of models).
Models must be set up wholly within their own Deployment Zone.
If a player runs out of models to set up, the other player sets up all
their remaining models, one after another until they have none left.
Once the players have set up their models, deployment ends and the
game begins.
Infiltrators
Infiltrators can deploy normally or by using their special deployment
rules. However, if they deploy using their special deployment rules,
they cannot deploy within 4” of either of the Wagons.
THE SWORD OF GOD
The Sword of God Wagons move along the railway during the
game, travelling from one edge of the battlefield to the other.
The speed at which they move depends on how many models are
fighting to control it. If there are no models on top of the Wagons,
then they do not move.
32’’
14’’
DEPLOYMENT ZONE
DEPLOYMENT ZONE
SWORD OF GOD
RAILWAY
8’’
4’’
EG

-- 74 of 104 --

Scenarios & Terrain	71
At the end of each Turn, count the total number of models that are
on top of the Sword of God’s Wagons. Remember that each model
from the Scrap Lord’s Warbands counts as 2 models instead of 1 for
this purpose. Both Wagons then move 1” along the railway for each
model on top of the Wagons, up to a maximum speed of 8”. Models
that are on top of the moving Wagons move with it. Any models in
base contact with the Wagons but not on top of them are left behind
as they move. Any model that comes into contact with a Wagon
when it moves is run over and immediately taken Out of Action.
Controlling the Sword of God
At the end of each Turn, after the Wagons have moved, determine
which player controls the Sword of God. A player controls the
Sword of God if they have more friendly models on top of the
Wagons than their opponent. If both players have the same number
of models on top of the Wagons, or if there are no models on
the Wagons, then neither player controls it. For the purposes of
determining control, the Scrap Lord’s models do not count as 2
models – they only count as 2 models when the Wagons move.
GAME LENGTH
The game ends when the Sword of God reaches the other side of the
battlefield. Otherwise, this scenario lasts six Turns.
VICTORY CONDITIONS
A player wins this scenario immediately if there are no enemy
models on the battlefield, or if the opposing Warband flees,
typically due to failing a Morale Check. Otherwise, the player with
more Victory Points at the end of the game is the winner.
Victory Points
At the end of each Turn, the player controlling the Sword of God
wins 2 VPs.
At the end of the game, each player scores 1 VP for each Glorious
Deed they completed.
GLORIOUS DEEDS
Bloody Tracks: A friendly model takes 3 enemy models Out of
Action during the game with a friendly model that is on a Wagon.
Cast them Out: A friendly model causes an enemy model to Fall
from a Wagon.
Lord’s Claim: A friendly model takes an enemy ELITE model
Out of Action while both models are on top of a Wagon.
Ride the Lightning: A friendly model ends 2 consecutive Turns
on top of a Wagon without any enemy models having been on
top of that Wagon for the same amount of time.
Roadkill: A friendly model on top of a Wagon takes an enemy
model Out of Action with a Ranged Attack.
I’ve never seen anything like it. A masterwork of engineering and art.
Decades spent beneath the sands of the Carcass Front, and still its
gears turn as if fresh from the foundry. The silver and gold on its barrel
is as bright as the day its makers brought it before the walls of New
Antioch. With a weapon such as this, nothing is safe from its shells.
-Combat Engineer Malachai, 9th New Antioch Pioneers
MM

-- 75 of 104 --

Scenarios & Terrain	72
Ⅴ º The Altar of Leviathan
Normally the townsfolk of the Carrion Coast welcome Faithful
warbands. Warily, aye, for soldiers can be rough sorts, always on the
lookout for something warm and tasty, but the people of Dorythol
locked their doors and turned us away. All we saw of them were
frightened faces peering out from widows hung with strange symbols
that Cleric Drazdau didn’t much like the look of.
-Medic Elena Tarvydas, 33rd Lithuanian Hussars
Faithful and Fallen warbands clash upon the storm-battered shore,
racing to claim the Altar of Leviathan – a serrated obelisk of greenish
black stone perched on a gale-blasted hill not far from Dorythol.
Dragged from an ancient temple beneath the waves, the altar once
saved the town from a thousand-foot tidal wave, but its protection
demands blood and souls. Now both sides seek to complete the
profane ritual that will summon the great beast from the depths.
Path to Leviathan Consequences
The warband that succeeds in summoning Leviathan in Scenario V:
The Altar of Leviathan is the overall winner of the campaign. (Yes,
you could lose every other scenario and still win the campaign
by winning this one game.) However, a full campaign victory as
envisaged by War Priest Charon or Blessed Bartolomeo requires
Leviathan to also be subdued using the Sword of God. This is
explained fully in Campaign Conclusions.
If this scenario is being played as part of the Path to Leviathan
campaign, the winners of the Ruins of Nineveh Novus and Domus
Demetrius scenarios can add +1 DICE to their Summon Rolls.
FORCES
No special restrictions apply to the models the players can include
in their Forces in this scenario.
THE BATTLEFIELD
The players roll-off. The winner sets up the terrain for the game
first, and the loser decides which side of the board is the Violent
Shore, and which is the Cliff Wall. This scenario uses the No Man’s
Land battlefield archetype.
When you set up the terrain for this battle, you must first set up
a hill terrain piece at the centre of the battlefield to represent
the rocky plateau that the Altar of Leviathan sits upon. The hill
measures 8” by 8”, and is 3-4” high. The sides of the hill are steep
cliffs that must be climbed in order to reach the top, but there are
steps on each of the four sides of the plateau that allow models to
Climb without having to take a Risky Success Roll. After setting
up the hill, place a landmark terrain piece to represent the Altar of
Leviathan at the centre of the hill. The Altar is Impassable terrain
and needs to be about 3-4” in diameter. The rest of the top of the
hill is Open terrain.
The hill and the Altar of Leviathan can be represented by suitable
models if you have any available. If you do not, then the hill can be
represented by a suitably sized box or a small pile of books, and the
Altar by a flat piece of card that has been cut to the correct size.
DEPLOYMENT
The players roll-off. The winner of the roll-off chooses which
Deployment Zone will be theirs. The other Deployment Zone is
their opponent’s. The players then alternate deploying their models
one at a time, starting with the player who has more models in
their Warband (roll-off if both players have the same number
of models). Models must be set up wholly within their own
Deployment Zone. If a player runs out of models to set up, the
other player sets up all their remaining models, one after another
until they have none left. Once the players have set up their
models, deployment ends and the game begins.
Infiltrators
Infiltrators can deploy normally or by using their special
deployment rules. However, if they deploy using their special
deployment rules, they cannot deploy within 4” of the hill.
THE ALTAR OF LEVIATHAN
To summon Leviathan requires perfect devotion – sacred words or
blasphemous chants spoken in precise rhythm while the faithful
lend their voices. But each successful invocation stirs the beast from
the abyss, and the sea itself rages in response, threatening to drag all
supplicants into the cold embrace of the deep.
Summoning Leviathan
At the end of each Turn, if a player has at least 1 friendly model
with the ELITE Keyword within 1” of the Altar of Leviathan and
DEPLOYMENT ZONE
32’’
DEPLOYMENT ZONE
8’’
8’’
12’’
20’’
VIOLENT SHORE/
CLIFF WALL
VIOLENT SHORE/
CLIFF WALL
EG

-- 76 of 104 --

Scenarios & Terrain	73
not within 1” of any enemy models, they can attempt to summon
Leviathan by making a Summon Roll. Up to 3 friendly models
within 1” of the Altar and not within 1” of an enemy model can
assist with the summoning. Note that an assisting model does not
have to be ELITE.
A Summon Roll is made by rolling 2D6. Add +1 DICE to the roll
for each model making an assist. The Summon Roll succeeds if
one or more of the dice used for the roll show a “6”. Rolling more
than one 6 has no additional effect. If both players can attempt to
summon Leviathan, they should roll-off and the winner make their
attempt first.
If the Summon Roll is successful, set one of the dice that rolled a 6
in front of the player who made the roll. When the third such dice
is placed in front of the player – so that their dice show “666” –
then Leviathan has been summoned and the player immediately
wins the game!
THE VIOLENT SHORE
Each time that a Summoning Roll is successful, Leviathan stirs in
the depths, causing massive waves to strike the shoreline, flooding
the area and bringing tidal debris, pieces of sunken ruins, or even
active sea bombs with it.
If the Turn after a Summoning Roll is a Success, the waves strike
the shore, and the following set of actions must then be taken by
the players:
Wave Push: At the start of the Turn, models on the battlefield not
on top of any piece of terrain that is at least 2” high are pushed
10” toward the Cliff Wall edge of the battlefield, and are then
taken Down if they are not already Down. Models are moved one
at a time, starting with the models that are closest to the Violent
Shore edge of the battlefield. A model stops if it is pushed into
a terrain piece, the Cliff Wall or another model. If one model
is pushed into another model, the other model only moves 5”
instead of 10” when it is pushed by the wave.
Wreckages: The wave brings forth new pieces of terrain onto the
battlefield. After all models have been pushed by the wave, each
player rolls once on the following table and sets up the indicated
terrain piece anywhere on the battlefield more than 1” away
from any other terrain and more than 1” from any models. If the
terrain piece cannot be fitted, it is discarded.
Wreckages Table
Roll 	Result
1-4 	Levant Hedgehog
5-6 	Naval Mine
Wave Drag: At the end of the Turn, models on the battlefield
that are not on top of any piece of terrain that is at least 2” high,
are dragged 5” toward the Violent Shore edge of the battlefield,
and are then taken Down if they are not already Down. Models
are moved one at a time, starting with the models that are closest
to the Cliff Wall edge of the battlefield. A model stops if it is
dragged into a terrain piece or another model. If one model is
dragged into another model, the other model only moves 2½”
instead of 5” when it is dragged by the wave. If a model is dragged
off the Violent Shore edge of the battlefield, it is taken Out of
Action, and is dead (remove the model from its Roster and do
not roll on the Trauma Table for it). It has become another piece
of meat for Leviathan to feast upon.
GAME LENGTH
This scenario lasts eight Turns or until a player makes their third
successful Summoning Roll.
VICTORY CONDITIONS
A player wins this scenario immediately if there are no enemy
models on the battlefield, if the opposing Warband flees (typically
due to failing a Morale Check), or if they have successfully
summoned Leviathan. Otherwise, the player with more Victory
Points at the end of the game is the winner.
Victory Points
At the end of the game, each player scores 3 VPs for each Successful
Summoning Roll they made during the game, and 1 VP for each
Glorious Deed they completed during the game.
GLORIOUS DEEDS
Drowned Glory: A friendly model takes an enemy model Down
and then the enemy model is dragged off the battlefield by the
Wave Drag.
Herald of the Deep: Make 3 Successful Summoning Rolls using
the same ELITE model. This Glorious Deed earns you 3 ☼
instead of only 1 – and wins you the game!
Silenced Prayer: A friendly model takes an enemy ELITE model
that is within 3” of the Altar of Leviathan Out of Action.
Tidewalker: A friendly model ends 3 consecutive Turns within
10” of the Violent Shore edge of the battlefield.
Burn it. Burn it all.
-Trench Cleric Viktor Drazdau, 33rd Lithuanian Hussars
MF

-- 77 of 104 --

Scenarios & Terrain	74
Random Scenario Generator
These rules can be used to generate scenarios for both one-off
games and in a campaign. They can be used for one-off games if
both players agree to use them. They can be used in a campaign if
the instructions for the campaign require the players to generate a
random scenario for a game, or if a “6” is rolled on the Campaign
Scenario table and both players agree to use them.
RANDOM SCENARIO STEPS
To generate a scenario, carry out the following steps in order:
1. Roll on the Battlefield Archetype chart.
2. Roll on the Deployment & Game Length chart.
3. Roll on the Victory Conditions chart.
4. Roll on the Glorious Deeds charts.
Make a note of each roll and then look up each roll in the
appropriate section below.
BATTLEFIELD ARCHETYPE CHART
Roll a D6 and look up the result on the following chart. The rules for
Battlefield Archetypes can be found in the Trench Crusade Rulebook.
D6 	Battlefield Archetype
1-3 	No Man’s Land
4-5 	Decimated Ruins
6 	Trench Lines
ROLL FOR DEPLOYMENT & GAME LENGTH
Roll a D6 and look up the result on the following chart. Note that a
single roll determines both the deployment and the game length.
D6 	Deployment 	Game Length
1 	Standard Deployment 	Roll a D6 at the end of the
fifth Turn. On a 1 or 2, the
game ends immediately. On a
3 or more, the game will end
at the end of the sixth Turn.
2 	Flank Attack
3 	Tunnels
4 	Fog of War
5 	Chance Encounter 	The game ends at the end of
the sixth Turn.	6 	Long-Distance Battle
Standard Deployment
The players roll-off. The winner
of the roll-off chooses which
Deployment Zone will be
theirs. The other Deployment
Zone is their opponent’s.
The players then alternate
deploying their models one
at a time, starting with the
player who has more models
in their Warband (roll-off if
both players have the same
number of models). Models must be set up wholly within their own
Deployment Zone. Infiltrators can deploy normally or by using
their special deployment rules.
Flank Attack
The players roll-off. The winner
of the roll-off chooses which
Deployment Zone will be
theirs. The other Deployment
Zone is their opponent’s.
The players then alternate
deploying their models one
at a time, starting with the
player who has more models
in their Warband (roll-off if
both players have the same
number of models). Models must be set up wholly within their own
Deployment Zone. Infiltrators can deploy normally or by using
their special deployment rules.
Tunnels
The players roll-off. The winner
of the roll-off chooses which
Deployment Zone will be
theirs. The other Deployment
Zone is their opponent’s. The
winner must then set up a
Tunnel Marker in the loser’s
half of the battlefield and
more than 6” from the loser’s
Deployment Zone. The loser
must then set up a Tunnel
Marker in the winner’s half of the battlefield and more than 6” from
the winner’s Deployment Zone.
The players must then split their Warbands into two groups with an
equal number of models. If a player has an odd number of models
in their Warband, the extra model must go in the first group. The
first group is the starting group, and the second group is their
reinforcements.
The players then alternate deploying their models in their starting
group one at a time, starting with the player who has more models
in their Warband (roll-off if both players have the same number
of models). Models must be set up wholly within their own
Deployment Zone. Infiltrators can deploy normally or by using
their special deployment rules, but must be set up more than 8”
from the opposing player’s Tunnel Marker.
DEPLOYMENT ZONE
24’’
DEPLOYMENT ZONE
DEPLOYMENT ZONE
24’’
DEPLOYMENT ZONE
DEPLOYMENT
24’’
DEPLOYMENT
MF

-- 78 of 104 --

Scenarios & Terrain	75
Starting from the first Turn, the players can Activate the models
from their reinforcements group, as well as the models that were
deployed at the start of the battle (the reinforcements and previously
deployed models can be Activated in any order). When they
Activate a reinforcement, they must deploy it within 6” of their
Tunnel Marker and more than 1” from any enemy models, even if it
is an Infiltrator. The player can then carry out the rest of the model’s
Activation normally except that the model cannot Dash. Both
players can choose to hold back reinforcements if they wish to, but
any that are not deployed by the end of the third Turn are treated as
having been taken Out of Action (the tunnels have collapsed!).
Fog of War
The players roll-off. The winner
of the roll-off chooses whether
the West or East Deployment
Zone will be theirs. The players
must then split their Warbands
into two groups of models. The
first group is the starting group,
and the second group is their
reinforcements. There must be
more models in the starting
group, and any models mounted
on bases of 40mm or larger must be part of the starting group.
The players then alternate deploying their models in their starting
group one at a time, starting with the player who has more models
in their Warband (roll-off if both players have the same number
of models). Models must be set up wholly within their own
Deployment Zone. Infiltrators that are part of the starting group
can deploy normally or by using their special deployment rules.
In the first Turn, the players must Activate the models from their
reinforcements group, as well as the models that were deployed at
the start of the battle (the reinforcements and previously deployed
models can be Activated in any order). When they Activate a
reinforcement, they must roll a D6 and refer to the Deployment
Zone chart below to see where the model is deployed. The model
must be deployed wholly within the Deployment Zone and in
contact with the edge of the battlefield, and more than 1” away
from any enemy models, even if it is an Infiltrator. The player
can then carry out the rest of the model’s Activation normally.
Note that both players must Activate all of the models in their
reinforcement group and they cannot choose to hold any back.
Important: If you are playing a game with the Breakthrough
Victory Condition, then reinforcements cannot be set up within
12” of their extraction point.
D6 	Deployment Zone
1 	The opposing player chooses the Deployment Zone.
2 	The model is deployed in the Northern Deployment Zone.
3 	The model is deployed in the Eastern Deployment Zone.
4 	The model is deployed in the Southern Deployment Zone.
5 	The model is deployed in the Western Deployment Zone.
6 	The player chooses which Deployment Zone is used.
Chance Encounter
Deployment
The players roll-off. The winner
of the roll-off chooses which
Deployment Zone will be
theirs. The other Deployment
Zone is their opponent’s. The
players must then split their
Warbands into two groups with
an equal number of models.
If a player has an odd number
of models in their Warband,
the extra model must go in the second group. The first group is the
player’s Turn 1 reinforcements, and the second group is their Turn 2
reinforcements. Infiltrators must deploy normally (they cannot use
their special deployment rules).
In the first Turn, the players can only Activate the models from
their Turn 1 reinforcements group. When they Activate a model,
they must deploy it wholly within their Deployment Zone, in
contact with the edge of the battlefield, and more than 1” from any
enemy models, even if it is an Infiltrator. The player can then carry
out the rest of the model’s Activation normally. Note that both
players must Activate all of the models in their reinforcement group
and they cannot choose to hold any back. In the second Turn the
players must Activate models from their Turn 2 reinforcements
group in the same way, and they can also Activate the models
they deployed during Turn 1 (the reinforcements and previously
deployed models can be Activated in any order).
Long-Distance Battle
The players roll-off. The
winner of the roll-off chooses
which Deployment Zone
will be theirs. The other
Deployment Zone is their
opponent’s. The players then
alternate deploying their
models one at a time, starting
with the player who has more
models in their Warband
(roll-off if both players have
the same number of models). Models must be set up wholly within
their own Deployment Zone. Infiltrators can deploy normally or
by using their special deployment rules.
DEPLOYMENT ZONE
30’’
DEPLOYMENT ZONE
24’’	
EAST
DEPLOYMENT ZONE
WEST
DEPLOYMENT ZONE
NORTH
DEPLOYMENT ZONE
SOUTH
DEPLOYMENT ZONE
8’’
DEPLOYMENT ZONE
DEPLOYMENT ZONE
8’’
8’’
8’’
MK

-- 79 of 104 --

Scenarios & Terrain	76
VICTORY CONDITIONS CHART
Roll a D6 and look up the result on the following chart:
D6 	Victory Condition
1 	Attritional Battle
2 	Breakthrough
3 	Over the Top
4 	Retrieve
5 	Sabotage
6 	Take and Hold
Attritional Battle
A player wins this scenario immediately if the opposing Warband
flees. Otherwise, the player with the most Victory Points at the end
of the game is the winner.
Each player scores VPs for enemy models that were taken Out of
Action equal to the model’s cost, divided by 10 if it has a cost in 👑,
or by 3 if it has a cost in ☼ (rounding fractions up). Include the
model’s Battlekit, Glory Items, and any other upgrades in its cost.
If a model has items worth both 👑 and ☼, work out each separately.
For example, a model that had a total cost of 100 👑 and 6 ☼ would
be worth 100÷10 = 10 VPs, plus 6÷3 = 2 VPs, for a total of 12 VPs.
At the end of the game each player scores 10 VPs for each
Glorious Deed they completed.
Breakthrough
Each side has an extraction point. They are directly opposite each
other, on the edge of the battlefield at the centre of the opponent’s
Deployment Zone. If a model finishes a move in contact with its
extraction point, it is immediately removed from the battlefield.
Models are also immediately extracted if they move into contact
with an enemy model that is within 1” of their extraction point.
Note that you cannot choose for a model to not be extracted.
A player wins this scenario immediately if the opposing Warband
flees. Otherwise, the player with more Victory Points at the end of
the game is the winner.
Each player scores VPs for friendly models that were extracted
equal to the model’s cost, divided by 10 if it has a cost in 👑, or by
3 if it has a cost in ☼ (rounding fractions up). Include the model’s
Battlekit, Glory Items, and any other upgrades in its cost. If a
model has items worth both 👑 and ☼, work out each separately. For
example, a model that had a total cost of 100 👑 and 6 ☼ would be
worth 100÷10 = 10 VPs, plus 6÷3 = 2 VPs, for a total of 12 VPs.
At the end of the game each player scores 10 VPs for each
Glorious Deed they completed.
Over the Top
Before deploying any models, each player must set up 4 Trench
sections that are at least 8” long in their Deployment Zone.
A player wins this scenario immediately if the opposing Warband
flees. Otherwise, the player with the most Victory Points at the end
of the game is the winner.
At the end of the game each player scores:
1 VP for each Trench section in their own Deployment Zone that
has at least 1 friendly model in it and no enemy models in it.
2 VPs for each Trench section in the enemy Deployment Zone
that has at least 1 friendly model in it and no enemy models in it.
1 VP for each Glorious Deed they completed.
Important: If Chance Encounter is rolled as the deployment for
this scenario, roll on the deployment chart again until a different
deployment is selected.
Retrieve
Place a Relic Marker at the midpoint of the battlefield. In addition,
everywhere within 6” of the centre of the battlefield is covered by
a dense unearthly fog. Models wholly within the fog are treated as
being in cover, and movement within the fog is treated as if it were
being made across Difficult terrain. Infiltrators cannot use their
special rules to set up within 12” of the Relic Marker.
A model within 1” of the Relic Markers takes a Pick Up Relic
ACTION (you do not have to make a Success Roll). Put the Relic
Marker in contact with the model’s base to show it is carrying it.
The only thing a model carrying the relic can do is take Move or
Retreat ACTIONS; it cannot do anything else or be moved in
any other way (e.g. with teleportation, Puppet Master, Tormentor
Chain, etc.). At the end of its Activation, you can say that a model
that is carrying the relic can either keep it or hand it to a friendly
model that is within 1”. When a model hands the relic on, place
the Marker in contact with the other model’s base. A model that is
handed the relic is treated as having been Activated, even if it has
not yet been Activated this Turn.
If a model carrying the relic is taken Down or Out of Action, or is
chosen as the target of a Melee Attack, it immediately drops the
relic. When a model drops the relic, place it within 1” of the model
and not in contact with any other models.
If the model carrying the relic moves into contact with a battlefield
edge, it escapes with the Relic Marker and the controlling player
immediately wins the game.
A player wins this scenario immediately if the opposing Warband
flees or if a friendly model carrying the relic finishes a move in
contact with the edge of the battlefield. Otherwise, the player with
the most Victory Points at the end of the game is the winner.
At the end of the game each player scores:
10 VPs if a friendly model has the Relic Marker.
1 VP for each Glorious Deed they completed.
Sabotage
After the terrain has been set up, the players must set up 6
Objective Markers. The players roll-off, and then alternate setting
up the Markers, one at a time, starting with the winner of the roll-
off. Objective Markers must be set up more than 6” from the edge
of the battlefield or a Deployment Zone, and more than 6” away
from any other Markers. If this makes it impossible to set up all of
the Markers, discard any that cannot be set up.
The players then roll-off again. The winner is the attacker and the
loser is the defender. All of the attacking models apart from Infil-
trators that deploy using their special rules have Demo Charges and
can take the following ACTIONS (no Success Rolls are necessary):
Place Demo Charge ACTION: A model that has Demo
Charges and is in contact with an Objective Marker can take an
ACTION to place the Demo Charge on the Marker. Once it
does so, it no longer has the Demo Charge but can now use the
Detonate Demo Charge ACTION.
Detonate Demo Charge ACTION: A model that has set Demo
Charges can take an ACTION to detonate the Demo Charge.

-- 80 of 104 --

Scenarios & Terrain	77
It can take the ACTION at any time during the game, and can
wait one or more Turns before it does so if desired (this gives the
model a chance to move away so it does not get caught in the
explosion). When it finally takes the ACTION, make an Injury
Roll with the IGNORE ARMOUR Keyword for every model
within 3” of the Marker. The Marker is then removed. Note that
if a model that has placed a Demo Charge is taken Out of Action,
it will not be possible to detonate the Demo Charge.
A player wins this scenario immediately if the opposing Warband
flees. Otherwise, the player with the most Victory Points at the
end of the game is the winner.
At the end of the game the attacker scores:
5 VPs for each Objective Marker that has been removed.
1 VP for each Glorious Deed they completed.
At the end of the game the defender scores:
5 VPs for each Objective Marker that has not been removed.
1 VP for each Glorious Deed they completed.
Take and Hold
After the terrain has been set up, the players must set up 6
Objective Markers. The players roll-off, and then alternate setting
up the Markers, one at a time, starting with the winner of the roll-
off. Objective Markers must be set up more than 6” from the edge
of the battlefield or a Deployment Zone, and more than 6” away
from any other Markers. If this makes it impossible to use all of the
Markers, discard any that cannot be set up.
A player wins this scenario immediately if the opposing Warband
flees. Otherwise, the player with the most Victory Points at the end
of the game is the winner.
At the end of the third Turn each player scores:
3 VPs for each Objective Marker they control. A player controls
an Objective Marker if there are more friendly models than
enemy models within 1” of it.
At the end of the game each player scores:
5 VPs for each Objective Marker they control. A player controls
an Objective Marker if there are more friendly models than
enemy models within 1” of it.
1 VP for each Glorious Deed they completed.
GLORIOUS DEEDS
To determine the Glorious Deeds for the scenario, each player
rolls two D6, one after the other. If a player rolls the same result on
both dice, roll the second dice again until it shows a different result
to the first dice. Then look up the rolls on the following charts to
generate four different Glorious Deeds for the game. The older of
the two players uses Chart 1 and the younger uses Chart 2. Note
that each of the Glorious Deeds can be completed by either player,
not just the player who rolled the result.
D6 	Glorious Deeds Chart 1 (Older Player)
1 	Reaper: A friendly model takes 3 enemy models Out of
Action during the game.
2 	Sharpshooter: A friendly model takes an enemy model Out
of Action with a Ranged Weapon Attack that has the Long
Range and Cover modifiers. Attacks with the BLAST Key-
word or that automatically hit without requiring a Success
Roll cannot complete this Glorious Deed.
3 	Bloodletting: An attack made by a friendly model results
in the sixth BLOOD MARKER being placed beside an
enemy model.
4 	Feigned Retreat: A friendly model takes a Retreat AC-
TION and then hits an enemy model it was within 1” of at
the start of the Activation with a Ranged Attack later in the
same Activation.
5 	Fickle Luck: A player spends 2 or more BLOOD MARK-
ERS to penalise a Success Roll for an enemy model.
6 	Headhunter: A friendly model takes 2 enemy models Out
of Action with Ranged Attacks during the game.
D6 	Glorious Deeds Chart 2 (Younger Player)
1 	Risk it All: A friendly model takes 2 Risky Success Rolls
in the same Activation, and both are a Success or Critical
Success.
2 	Live Dangerously: A friendly model takes 2 Retreat AC-
TIONS during the game.
3 	Killer Instinct: A friendly model takes 2 enemy models Out
of Action with Melee Attacks during the game.
4 	No Escape: A friendly model successfully charges an enemy
model that it did not have a Line of Sight to at the start of
its Activation.
5 	Cast Them Down: A friendly model causes an enemy
model to Fall from a height of at least 3” (e.g. by taking the
enemy model Down near a ledge, or by forcing it off a ledge
in some way).
6 	Show of Mercy: A friendly model takes a Retreat ACTION
when it is within 1” of an enemy model that is Down.
In addition to the Glorious Deeds generated on the charts, the
following Glorious Deed is always used for a Random Scenario that
has been generated for a Campaign:
Victory or Death: A Warband wins the game. This Glorious Deed
is only used in campaign games and is determined after the result of
the game has been decided. You do not receive any Victory Points
for achieving this Glorious Deed, but you can award 1 Experience
Point to 1 ELITE model from the Warband that has the LEADER
Keyword if you have one available, and you receive Glory Points and
an extra D6 for your Promotion Pool as you would do normally.

-- 81 of 104 --

Campaigns on the Carcass Front	78
CAmPAiGns 	on 	The 	CArCAss 	fronT
This section of the Carcass Front book expands on the campaign
rules in the Trench Crusade Rulebook. It provides new Patrons
that can be used in any campaign that you play, an expansion to the
standard rules for campaigns that allows players to explore a map
of the region and follow a number of different paths to victory, and
a narrative campaign called The Path to Leviathan that allows two
players or sides to fight a series of games, in a bid to either raise or
destroy the monstrous creature that was defeated and cast down
into the Carcass Front centuries ago.
PATRONS
Three new Patrons are included in Carcass Front. They are in the
same format as those in the Trench Crusade Rulebook, and are used
in exactly the same way.
THE CARCASS FRONT CAMPAIGN
This section of Carcass Front expands on the rules for campaigns in
the Trench Crusade Rulebook. It allows the players to use a map of
the Carcass Front for the Warbands to explore, a Campaign Tracker
sheet that gives the players several new ways to score Campaign
Victory Points (🏅) in order to win the campaign, and a pack of
Vision cards that gives each player a secret campaign objective.
THE PATH TO LEVIATHAN
The Path to Leviathan is a narrative campaign for two players.
The players play each of the five new scenarios in Carcass Front,
one after the other. The outcome of each game will influence what
happens later in the campaign, with the winner of the final game
becoming the overall winner of the campaign.
New Patrons
The following new Patrons can be taken by eligible Warbands in
any Campaign (not just a Carcass Front Campaign).
HOUSE OF WISDOM
Iron Sultanate only.
Your Patron is of the bloodline of a fabled alchemist such as ibn
Sina, ibn Umayl, or even an entire school within the House of
Wisdom. Such Patrons offer rare and esoteric knowledge and
treatments from the Sultan’s most secretive laboratories, both for
the glory of Allah and for practical field testing.
Having the House of Wisdom as your Patron allows you to take the
following skills:
Elemental Savant: When a model gains this Skill, choose
either the NEGATE FIRE, or NEGATE GAS, or NEGATE
SHRAPNEL Keyword for the model.
Experimental Ammunition: Models in a Warband that includes
a model with this Skill can have Armour-Piercing Bullets at a cost
of 5 👑 each and Dum-Dum Ammunition at a cost of 5 👑 each.
The Armour-Piercing Bullets and Dum-Dum Ammunition each
have the Limit: 2 stipulation.
Eyes of Hanayn: When a model gains this Skill you can immedi-
ately purchase the Hypnotic Eyes and/or Terrifying Appearance
Alchemical Formulae for it at their normal cost, replacing instanc-
es of “Takwin Homunculus” in those rules with this model’s name.
Jinn Talisman ACTION: A model with this Skill can take a
Jinn Taslisman ACTION. If it does so, change the Movement
Characteristic of this model to 4” and give it the FLYING
Keyword until the end of their Activation.
Heart of al-Jazari: When a model gains this Skill you can
immediately purchase the Regenerative Tissue and/or Startling
Speed Alchemical Formulae for it at their normal cost, replacing
all instances of “Takwin Homunculus” in those rules with this
model’s name.
Whispering Zīj: Takwin Homunculus models in a Warband
with a model with this Skill can purchase the Zīj Seal Alchemical
Formulae for 20 👑.
Zīj Seal: Enemy models cannot use the INFILTRATOR
Keyword to deploy within 12” of a model with this Skill. In
addition, if the enemy is within 4” of a model with this Skill,
you do not have to make a Risky Success Roll for the model
with this Skill when it charges an enemy model it cannot see.
“Peace be upon you, sibling,
“May the Blessings of Allah the Most Merciful illuminate you. Too
long has it been since we spoke, as the contents of the profane casket I
unearthed beneath the church at Gezköy drew me westwards to the
mechanised horrors of the Balkans. But the most holy prophets speak of
a new threat and so I have led Those Who Believe back to the Levant.
This is a hostile land, for the branches of the Zaqqum tree claw up from
Jahannam with poisoned fruit, though the unbelievers know it not.
“You recall the tales of Ibn al-Wardi that mother, may she rest in
Allah’s grace, read to us as we drank nabeez beneath the fanning of
the Takwin? Of ocean-dwelling Bahamut and how it bore the weight
of the world upon its back? The Faithful Beyond the Wall misname it
Leviathan, and lunatic pilgrims fight with worshippers of Gog and
Magog who all seek to hunt the great beast. They mean to slay it with
the Sayf Allah, the very weapon crafted by the ancient alchemagi! They
must not succeed! If Bahamut dies, what becomes of the burden of
Kuyuta, the titan of Earth? Such fury unshackled will rock the world
to its core and bring ruin upon us all. In such times, I fear even the
Iron Wall cannot survive such devastation.
“I will send word when I know more, but know that I serve Allah and will
see you again soon, Inshallah. Until then, I remain your devoted sister.”
-Sutayta Al Shahda, Jabirean Alchemagi of the House of Wisdom
MF

-- 82 of 104 --

Campaigns on the Carcass Front	79
BLESSED BARTOLOMEO
Faithful Warbands only.
Your Patron is Blessed Bartolomeo, the Martyr of Leviathan.
The War Prophet raves with such conviction and holy promise that
his words stir fear and awe in the hearts of the Faithful. This piety
cascades through the warbands that Blessed Bartolomeo patronises,
offering a degree of righteous belief that inspires supernatural
fortitude and luck as uncanny as his own.
Having Blessed Bartolomeo as your Patron allows you to take the
following skills:
All That Was Borne Is Ours to Bear: Add +1 INJURY
MODIFIER to Ranged and Melee Attacks made by a model
with this Skill for every 2 BLOOD MARKERS the model has.
Chosen: A model with this Skill has the Lucky Exploration Skill
(▶ see Exploration Skills in the Trench Crusade Rulebook). A
Warband can only have one model with this Skill.
Martyr of Leviathan: When a model with this Skill is deployed for
the first time, place D3 BLESSING MARKERS next to the model.
The Truth of Suffering: Add -1 INJURY DICE to Injury rolls for
a model with this Skill. This Skill can only be taken by a model on
a 40mm Base or smaller.
Trample Our Enemy into the Mud: When a model with this Skill
takes a Down enemy model Out of Action with a Melee Attack,
place 1 BLESSING MARKER alongside it.
We Are but a Single Breath: For each model in your Warband
with this Skill you can re-roll one Survival Roll in the Trauma
Step (▶ see the Trench Crusade Rulebook).
WAR PRIEST CHARON
Fallen Warbands only.
Your Patron is War Priest Charon, the Apostate of Éire.
The former Trench Cleric has built a reputation for himself as a
cunning warlord, and his promise of ancient knowledge has drawn
the attention of all those who would dethrone the tyrant YHWH.
War Priest Charon offers a share of his knowledge to those that
would answer his call, from cosmological secrets to his finely honed
tactics as a Heretic Naval Raider.
Having War Priest Charon as your Patron allows you to take the
following skills:
A Master of Death: A model with this Skill adds the
AUTOMATIC 2 Keyword to attacks made with a Ranged
Weapon that are within Short Range of the target. If the Ranged
Weapon already has the AUTOMATIC Keyword, add +1 to the
number of attacks it can make. A Warband can have only 1 model
with this Skill.
Fire and Fear: Pick one Skill from the Ranged Skills Table and
give it to this model.
Fonts of Joyous Wickedness: A model with this Skill has the Lucky
Exploration Skill (▶ see Exploration Skills in the Trench Crusade
Rulebook). A Warband can have only 1 model with this Skill.
No Longer Cowed Supplicants: When a model with this Skill
suffers a Down result on the Injury table, it is treated as a Minor
Wound result instead.
On Wings of Blooded Iron ACTION: A model with this Skill
can take an On Wings of Blooded Iron ACTION. If it does so,
take a Risky Success Roll for the model. If the roll is a Failure,
nothing happens and the model’s Activation ends. If the roll is
a Success or a Critical Success, pick a friendly model within 8”
of the model taking the On Wings of Blooded Iron ACTION
(including the model itself ). You can carry out a move or a retreat
move with the model as if it had a Movement Characteristic of
8”/Flying. It cannot make a charge move. After carrying out the
move, place 1 BLOOD MARKER next to the model.
We Are the Storm: After deployment, you can move this model
D6”. It cannot move within 1” of any enemy models.
EG 	EG

-- 83 of 104 --

The Carcass Front Campaign	80
The CArCAss 	fronT 	CAmPAiGn
The Carcass Front Campaign offers a new way for groups of two
or more players to play linked games of Trench Crusade, telling a
memorable story as you do so.
There is no single path to victory in the Carcass Front Campaign.
Not every Warband ventures out into No Man’s Land solely with
murder and conquest in their eyes (though many do). Some forces
are sent to establish a forward base for a much larger force to
later occupy; others simply seek to plunder the earth, churned by
centuries of war, for relics and rare resources. More may seek fame
or martyrdom, and others still simply wish to wring what measly
existence they can from the craters and viscera of the frontlines.
New Players Read This
While not mandatory, we highly advise players to run through
at least a short campaign using the standard system provided in
the Trench Crusade Rulebook before they play a Carcass Front
Campaign. This will help get players familiar with the flow and feel
of the standard campaign rules, most of which are not changed in a
Carcass Front Campaign.
Campaign Overview
A Carcass Front Campaign uses most of the campaign rules from
the Trench Crusade Rulebook. However, whilst it’s similar to the
standard campaign system, the Carcass Front Campaign system has
three key differences:
First, the map. During the campaign, Warbands will be able to
travel around the map, scouting areas, fighting for territory and
establishing outposts. The map is divided into different zones that
offer narratively fitting resources and exploration tables, meaning
that where your Warband chooses to travel is important for both
story and rewards. Around the map are several important tables
used in campaign games.
Second, each player is given their own Campaign Tracker sheet.
The Campaign Trackers are used to record the number of
Campaign Victory Points (🏅) that the player has scored, and will
ultimately determine who is the winner of the campaign. There
are many ways to do this, with game wins being just one of the
ways to achieve victory. Players are also rewarded for performing
Glorious Deeds and gathering resources across the map to build
and upgrade their Camps.
Third, at the start of the campaign, you will be given a card from
the deck of Vision cards included with Carcass Front. The Vision
card will provide you with an objective that your Patron wishes
you to fulfil. If you do so successfully, then you will earn valuable
Campaign Victory Points.
The Campaign Map
The main focus of the Carcass Front Campaign is the campaign
map included in the box. We recommend you unfold the map
and keep it close to hand so that you can refer to it as you read the
following rules. The myriad trenches, ruins and other shattered
hellscapes that constitute the Carcass Front are loosely divided into
“zones”, linked to each other by the white lines with black borders
shown on the map. Each zone will be either a Basic Zone, an Entry
Zone or a Special Zone. Warbands start the campaign at an Entry
Zone, and Special Zones confer a bonus to any Warband that
manages to establish an Outpost in the zone. In addition, each zone
may provide Resources that can be used by a Warband that controls
them. The effects that the different zones and resources have are
described in the rules on the following pages.
RESOURCES
Resources represent the various assets Warbands will be fighting
over in the Carcass Front, from notoriety to medical supplies, from
lost artefacts to trade networks. The resources available in each zone
are shown on the Carcass Front Zones table on the campaign map.
The four Resources are:
Favour 👁
Effigies, grizzly trophies, reputation.
Favour Resources bring glory to your Warband’s Patron and
empower your Warband’s champions. Rolls on the Favour
Exploration Table can yield chances to prove your devotion to your
Patron, exchanging ☼ for 🏅. In addition, Favour Resources build
and upgrade your Camp’s Shrine.
Relics 🏺
Forgotten secrets, rare metals, sacred artefacts.
Relic Resources give your Warband a vast treasury of rare and
powerful artefacts. Rolls on the Relics Exploration Table allow
you to find lost apocrypha, gaining 🏅 for each piece you find. In
addition, Relics Resources build and upgrade your Camp’s Vault.
Supplies 📦
Ammo dumps, medical supplies, scavenged armaments.
Supply Resources make your Warband well equipped and sustained
and keep them in the fight. Rolls on the Supplies Exploration Table
provide a vast array of options, from Battlekit to 👑, and occasionally
even 🏅. In addition, Supplies Resources build and upgrade your
Camp’s Vault.
Territories 🌍
Advantageous positions, intel and recon, trade networks.
Territory Resources help your Warband become more established
in the zone and gain environmental supremacy. Rolls on the
Territories Exploration Table can attract trench merchants, allowing
all players to purchase Campaign Glory Items, but giving you 🏅 for
doing so. In addition, Territories Resources build and upgrade your
Camp’s Garrison.

-- 84 of 104 --

The Carcass Front Campaign	81
The Vision Cards
Carcass Front includes a pack of 16 Vision cards. At the start of the
campaign, the deck of cards is shuffled and each player is dealt 2
Vision cards face down. Each player examines both in secret, picks
one of the cards to keep, and returns the other card to the game
box unseen. Players can keep the card that they choose secret from
the other players, revealing it only at the end of the campaign.
Note that this requires players taking part in the campaign to
gather together in order to distribute Vision cards. Alternatively,
two cards can be sent to each player and they can return the one
they do not wish to use.
Each card lists 3 Visions that the Patron wants fulfilled. The Visions
represent the fickle and often inscrutable demands of the powerful
beings who patronise the Warbands of the Carcass Front. At the end
of the campaign, each player reveals their Vision card and scores 🏅
for each of the 3 objectives they have achieved. Note that the 🏅
scored for the 3 objectives are cumulative, and are roughly balanced
to be achievable (but a challenge) at the three recommended
campaign lengths – across 4, 8, and 12 games.
More Than Eight Players
A pack of Vision cards has enough cards for up to 8 players. If
you have more players than that, you will need multiple packs of
Vision cards.
The Campaign Tracker
Each player taking part in the campaign will need their own
Campaign Tracker sheet. This sheet has a space for recording
the zones on the map your Warband has Scouted (▶ see Scouted
Zones on the next page) and tracks for recording important
game information.
1. The Glory Track: After each game you play, write the number of
Glorious Deeds you completed into the next available box.
2. The Resource Tracks (Favour, Relics, Supplies and Territories):
After a game, fill in boxes on tracks corresponding to resources
available in the zone where the game was played (▶ see Game
Result Summary on page 83).
3. The Conquest Track: Fill in a box for every game that you win.
4. The Aggression Track: Fill in a box each time you were the
Aggressor (▶ see Carcass Front Campaign Games on page 82).
5. The Other Track: These boxes are used to keep track of the
number of 🏅 you score from Exploration Tables, Shared
Campaign Objectives, and your Patron Visions.
6. Scouted Zones: Record the zones that you have Scouted here.
7. Outposts: Record the zones you have Outposts in here.
8. Buildings: Record any buildings you have in your camp and
their tiers in this box.
Boxes are filled in order, starting with the first box on the track
(which is picked out with two lines) and then following the arrows
shown on the track. Filling in boxes will unlock the Campaign
Victory Points and campaign bonuses that fall under the boxes you
have filled. For example, filling in the second box on the Territory
Track will earn you the Explore campaign bonus, and filling in
the third box on the track will earn you the Garrison
campaign bonus and also score 5 🏅.
MF
1.
2.
3.
4. 	5.
6.
7.
8.

-- 85 of 104 --

The Carcass Front Campaign	82
Beginning the Campaign
Once you have recruited a group of players to take part in the
campaign, you need to decide how many games will be played. The
maximum number of games in a campaign is 12, but you can play
any lower number depending on the experience you’re looking for.
We recommend a length of 4 games for short campaigns (for one-day
events or trying out the system), 8 games for medium campaigns (an
average player experience or a long weekend event), and 12 games for
long campaigns (for a regular gaming group or a slow-grow).
Once the length of the campaign has been determined, each player
can recruit their starting Warband and pick a Patron (▶ see the
Trench Crusade Rulebook). They each choose a Vision card as
described on the previous page, and finally, each player is given a
Campaign Tracker and records the Entry Zone for their Warband on
it.
ENTRY ZONES
At the start of the campaign each player must choose one of the
Entry Zones on the map and write it on their Campaign Tracker.
Multiple players can choose the same Entry Zone.
There are four Entry Zones on the Carcass Front Map from which
players can begin their campaign: the Ancient Railway, the Blighted
Ruins, the Derelict Port, and the Secluded Tunnels. The Entry
Zone a player chooses will determine their initial position on the
campaign map, and as such the earliest Resources to which they
have access – which may prove important for choosing an approach
to the campaign.
Carcass Front
Campaign Games
You are now ready to start the campaign. The games are played
in a similar way to those for the standard campaign in the Trench
Crusade Rulebook. You can play a campaign game against any
of the other players that are taking part and all you need to do is
arrange a time and place for the game, get together, and then select
the scenario you are going to play.
However, the method used for choosing the scenario that is to be
played is slightly different to that used in a standard campaign. It
uses the following three steps:
1. You must first determine who is the Aggressor.
2. The Aggressor must choose the zone where the game takes place.
3. The zone where the game takes place will determine which
scenario is used for the game.
4. Each of these steps is described in more detail below.
DETERMINING THE AGGRESSOR
Before you can play a campaign game, one of the players must be
chosen as the Aggressor. This player chooses the zone where the
game will take place on the campaign map, and is also eligible to
receive more varied rewards in the Exploration Step after the game
(▶ see Exploration Step on page 85).
To determine who is the Aggressor, the players must compare in
how many previous games they were the Aggressor (keep track
of this on the Aggressor Track on your Campaign Tracker). The
player who has been the Aggressor fewer times in previous games
is the Aggressor for this game. In the case of a tie or for your first
campaign game, the players roll-off and the winner is the Aggressor.
MF

-- 86 of 104 --

The Carcass Front Campaign	83
PICK THE BATTLE ZONE
Next the Aggressor must pick the zone where the game will take
place. The zone that they pick must either be:
Linked to their Entry Zone.
Be a zone they have already Scouted (▶ see Scouted Zones below).
Be linked to a zone they have already Scouted (▶ see Scouted
Zones below).
Scouted Zones
Players are considered to have Scouted any zone that they have
chosen as the Aggressor, or any zone in which they have won a
game. Write down which zones you have Scouted on your
Campaign Tracker.
The Altar of Leviathan
This zone can only be chosen as the zone for a game if both players
have at least 1 Omen of Leviathan in their Arsenal and it is the
last game of the campaign for the two players (i.e. in an 8-game
campaign this will be the eighth game for each player). Certain
Special Zone Bonuses will give you the Omens of Leviathan you
need to play a game in this zone (▶ see Outposts Step on page 87).
CHOOSING THE SCENARIO
The zone that the Aggressor has chosen will determine which
scenario is used for the game. The scenarios to be used for each zone
are listed in the Carcass Front Zones table on the campaign map,
and will either be one from the Trench Crusade Rulebook, one of
the 5 scenarios included in Carcass Front, or a random scenario that
is generated using the Scenario Generator rules.
Random Campaign Scenarios
The following special rules apply to a random scenario in a
campaign game:
The Battlefield Archetype is determined by the zone in which the
game is taking place and is listed in the Carcass Front Zones table
on the campaign map.
The Deployment and Victory Conditions are generated using the
Carcass Front Scenario Generator charts on the campaign map.
Glorious Deeds for the scenario are generated normally (▶ see
Glorious Deeds on page 77).
The game length is always 6 Turns.
PLAYING THE GAME
Once you have chosen the scenario, you should play the game in
the same way as a campaign game in the standard rules. You must
still follow the rules for Threshold Values and Field Strength when
picking your Force. Once the game is finished, play proceeds to the
Campaign Phase (▶ see the Trench Crusade Rulebook).
GAME RESULT SUMMARY
The result of the games will have one of a number of outcomes,
summarised below. The rules for each of the outcomes is explained
in more detail on the following pages.
Aggressor Wins Game: The Aggressor gains up to 2 different
Resources available from the zone, fills in the next available
Conquest box, adds the zone to their Scouted zones and
adds an Outpost to it, rolls on one of the Exploration Tables
corresponding to an available Resource in the zone, and collects
loot equal to their Exploration Roll × 5 in 👑.
Aggressor Loses Game: The Aggressor gains 1 Resource available
from the zone, adds the zone to their Scouted zones, rolls on one of
the Exploration Tables corresponding to the available Resource in
the zone, and collects loot equal to their Exploration Roll × 5 in 👑.
Opponent Wins Game: The opponent of the Aggressor gains
1 Resource available from the zone, fills in the next available
Conquest box, adds the zone to their Scouted zones, rolls to
see if they are approached by agents of Rudolf ’s Folly (▶ see
Rudolf ’s Folly on page 86), and collects loot equal to their
Exploration Roll × 5 in 👑.
Opponent Loses Game: The opponent of the Aggressor gains 1
Resource available from the zone, adds the zone to their Scouted
zones, rolls to see if they are approached by agents of Rudolf ’s
Folly (▶ see Rudolf ’s Folly on page 86), and collects loot equal to
their Exploration Roll × 5 in 👑.
Campaign Phase
When you finish a Carcass Front Campaign game, you and your
opponent must carry out a Campaign Phase in the same way as
you would in a standard campaign (▶ see the Trench Crusade
Rulebook). However, in a Carcass Front Campaign there are two
new steps, and several special rules apply to the Exploration Step.
CAMPAIGN PHASE STEPS
A Carcass Front Campaign Phase has the following Campaign
Steps. The Trench Crusade Rulebook has details of all steps that
have not changed.
1. Trauma and Promotions & Experience Steps: These steps are
unchanged.
2. Campaign Tracker Step: This is a new step (▶ see on page 84).
3. Reinforcement Step (Optional): This step is unchanged.
4. Exploration Step: New special rules apply to this step (▶ see on
page 85).
5. Outposts Step: This is a new step (▶ see on page 87).
6. Quartermaster & Roster Steps: These steps are unchanged.
MF

-- 87 of 104 --

The Carcass Front Campaign	84
CAMPAIGN TRACKER STEP
The new Campaign Tracker Step is carried out just before the
Reinforcements Step. In the Campaign Tracker Step, both
players must fill in their Campaign Tracker as described below.
Boxes are filled in order, starting with the first box on the track
(which is picked out with two lines) and then following the
arrows shown on the track.
The Glory Track: Write the number of Glorious Deeds you
completed in the game on the Glory Track. For example, if you
completed 3 Glorious Deeds in your first game, you would write
a “3” in the first box on the track.
The Resource Tracks (Favour, Relics, Supplies and Territories):
Put an X in a box from a Resource track that corresponds to
a Resource listed for the zone where the game took place. For
example, if a game took place in a zone that provided Favour and
Territory, you could put an X either in a box from your Favour
track or in a box from the Territory track. Important: if the
Aggressor won the game, they can put an X in 2 boxes instead of
1, but each box must be on a different Resource track. Carrying
on the previous example, they could put 1 X in a box on the
Favour track and the Territory track, but could not put 2 Xs on
the same track.
The Conquest Track: Put an X in a box on the Conquest Track if
you won the game that has just been played.
The Aggression Track: Put a W in a box on the Aggression Track
if you were the Aggressor in the game that has just been played
and won the game, or put an L in a box if you were the Aggressor
and lost the game.
The Other Track: This track is used to record any 🏅 you scored
during the campaign other than those scored on the other tracks.
For example, if an Exploration Roll meant that you scored 5 🏅
you would record them here by writing “5” in the first empty box
on the track.
Campaign Tracker Rewards
Filling in a box on the Campaign Tracker will sometimes give you
rewards. The rewards you receive are listed underneath the box.
Rewards are received immediately after the box is filled in, and may
in turn trigger further rewards. Rewards do the following things:
Reward 	Effect
🏅 Score the indicated number of Campaign Victory
Points.
+1 🎲 Roll an extra Exploration Dice in each Exploration
Step.
Reroll 🎲 You can reroll 1 Exploration Dice in each Explora-
tion Step.
Set 🎲 You can pick the value of 1 Exploration Dice in
each Exploration Step.
🗺
(Resource)
Roll on the Exploration Table for the indicated
Resource type.
+👁 	Fill in 1 box on your Favour Track.
+🏺 	Fill in 1 box on your Relics Track.
+📦 	Fill in 1 box on your Supplies Track.
+🌍 	Fill in 1 box on your Territories Track.
+🌈 	Fill in 1 box on any Resources Track of your choice.
💰 1/2/3 Gain the effects of the indicated Tier of your Depot
Building.
⛫ 1/2/3 Gain the effects of the indicated Tier of your Garri-
son Building.
🛐 1/2/3 Gain the effects of the indicated Tier of your Shrine
Building.
🏦 1/2/3 Gain the effects of the indicated Tier of your Vault
Building.
MF

-- 88 of 104 --

The Carcass Front Campaign	85
CAMPAIGN BUILDINGS & CAMPS
At the start of the campaign, each Warband is assumed to have a
Camp located in their Entry Zone. As the campaign progresses, you
will get the chance to earn rewards that allow you to add buildings
to your Camp that can provide benefits that will help you win the
campaign. Record any buildings you add to your camp, and their
tier, on the back of your Campaign Tracker.
Building Benefits
When a building is added to your Camp, it starts as a tier 1 building.
Each further reward that you receive for the building adds a new
tier, up to a maximum of 3 tiers. Each new tier adds a new benefit,
which is received in addition to the benefits from the lower tiers.
Depot 💰: A supply station, a mound of ripe corpses, a field
surgeon.
Tier 1: You can add or subtract 1 from your Exploration Roll
when rolling on the Supplies Exploration Table.
Tier 2: Roll 1 extra Exploration Dice when rolling on the
Supplies Exploration Table and increase your Warband’s
Threshold Value by 20 👑.
Tier 3: Add a Salvaged Resurrection Machine to your
Warband’s Arsenal. In any future Quartermaster Step, you can
use the Salvaged Resurrection Machine to remove 1 Battle Scar
and the effects of 1 Trauma from a model in your Warband.
Remove the Salvaged Resurrection Machine from your
Warband Roster after it is used.
Garrison ⛫: A watchtower, a scout post, an indentured guardian
beast.
Tier 1: You can add or subtract 1 from your Exploration Roll
when rolling on the Territories Exploration Table.
Tier 2: Roll 1 extra Exploration Dice when rolling on the
Territories Exploration Table. In addition, reduce the cost of
any Glory Item purchased by your Warband from a Trench
Merchant by 1 ☼ (to a minimum of 1).
Tier 3: You may immediately recruit one Mercenary available to
your Warband for no cost. If none are available or you cannot
recruit Mercenaries, you may immediately recruit one ELITE
model without the LEADER Keyword to your Warband for no
cost in 👑 (normal restrictions and limits apply). You may buy
Battlekit for this model during the Quartermaster Step.
Shrine 🛐: A trench masjid, a Synod communication tower, a
sacrificial altar.
Tier 1: You can add or subtract 1 from your Exploration Roll
when rolling on the Favour Exploration Table.
Tier 2: Roll 1 extra Exploration Dice when rolling on the
Favour Exploration Table. In addition, 1 model in your
Warband with the LEADER Keyword can immediately make
an Advancement Roll.
Tier 3: Add a Lock of Samson’s Hair to your Warband’s Arsenal.
It is a piece of equipment that can be given to any model. A
model with a Lock of Samson’s Hair gains the STRONG
Keyword. In addition add +1 INJURY DICE to rolls for Melee
Attacks made by a model with a Lock of Samson’s Hair.
Vault 🏦: A House of Wisdom field lab, a makeshift reliquary, a
hoard of gold at a Golden Calf altar.
Tier 1: You can add or subtract 1 from your Exploration Roll
when rolling on the Relics Exploration Table.
Tier 2: Roll 1 extra Exploration Dice when rolling on the Relic
Exploration Zone Table. In addition, if an Exploration Result
allows you to choose an option from a list, you may choose 2
different options from the list instead of 1.
Tier 3: Add 1 Glory Item to your Arsenal for free. If you prefer
you can choose the Glory Item in any future Quartermaster Step.
THE EXPLORATION STEP
The following special rules apply to the Exploration Step in a
Carcass Front Campaign.
Record Scouted Zones
At the start of the Exploration Step the players must record if
they have Scouted the zone where the game took place on their
Campaign Tracker. The Aggressor always Scouts the zone where the
game took place, but the opposing player only Scouts the zone if
they win the game.
Determine Exploration Dice
The number of Exploration Dice you roll is not determined by
the number of games you have played. Instead, you start with an
Exploration Dice Pool of 3D6, and you gain additional Exploration
Dice as rewards from the Campaign Tracker and for adding
Buildings to your Camp (▶ see the Campaign Tracker on page 80).
Consult Exploration Tables & Collect Loot
In a Carcass Front Campaign, you must use the Carcass Front
Exploration Tables at the end of this book, instead of the ones in
the Trench Crusade Rulebook (▶ see Carcass Front Exploration
Tables on page 91). Whether or not you can use the Exploration
Tables depends on if you were the Aggressor or not:
If you were the Aggressor, make your Exploration Roll and
look it up on an Exploration Table corresponding to one of the
Resources that are available in the zone where the game was
played. You then receive Loot equal to your Exploration Roll
times 5 in 👑.
If you were not the Aggressor, make your Exploration Roll but do
not look it up on an Exploration Table. Instead, if at least 3 of the
Exploration Dice you have rolled have the same value (i.e. three
or more 6s, or three or more 2s, etc.), then you come across agents
for Rudolf ’s Folly (▶ see on page 86). You then receive Loot equal
to your Exploration Roll times 5 in 👑. If three or more dice do
not match, nothing untoward occurs.
Carcass Front Exploration Rolls
The rolls for the Locations on the Carcass Front Exploration
Tables produce a range rather than a single number (e.g. “1-3”). A
Location is discovered if the Exploration Roll corresponds to any
number in the range – in this example, on the roll of a 1, a 2, or a 3.
Exploration Resources & Campaign Victory Points
Some Exploration Rolls will allow you to gain one or more
Resources or score 🏅. Fill in the boxes for any Resources you gain
on your Campaign Tracker, taking any Rewards that they earn
immediately after filling in the box. Write down any 🏅 in the Other
Track on your Campaign Tracker.
“The blood-dimmed tide is loosed,
and everywhere
The ceremony of innocence
is drowned”
– W. B. Yeats

-- 89 of 104 --

The Carcass Front Campaign	86
EG
Rudolf’s Folly
If you were not the Aggressor in a game, then there is a chance
that you are approached by agents for Rudolf ’s Folly (▶ see the
Exploration Step above). If this happens the agents offer you the
support of some of Rudolf ’s Folly’s aircraft. Accepting the offer will
cost you 1 ☼ and will allow you to use either the following Aerial
Bombardment special rule or the Strafing Run special rule in your
next game. If you pay for the Aerial Bombardment but do not use it,
the ☼ is wasted (you cannot use the Aerial Bombardment in a later
game). Note that it is possible to use Aerial Bombardments several
times over the course of a campaign, but you must pay 1 ☼ each time.
AERIAL BOMBARDMENT
In order to use an Aerial Bom-
bardment, you will need to cut
out three 25mm square pieces of
light paper (not card) to repre-
sent the bombs that are dropped.
We have provided an example of
a Bomb Marker here that you can
copy and use if you wish. You can
download a set of Bomb Markers
from the Trench Crusade website
that you can print and cut out.
Once, during one of your model’s Activations, you may unleash
the Bombardment. To do so, place one of the Bomb Markers flat
in your palm, then turn your hand over to let the marker flutter
down naturally onto the battlefield. Wherever the Marker lands, it
detonates as if it were a model carrying a Sarcophagus Mine (▶ see
the Trench Crusade Rulebook).
You must then repeat the process for the second and third Bomb
Markers, until all three have been dropped. You cannot save any of
the Markers to use later in the game.
STRAFING RUN
In order to make a Strafing Run
you will need an Aircraft Marker
and a Strafing Marker. The Mark-
ers can be downloaded from
trenchcrusade.com, then printed
and cut out. If you prefer, you
could instead use a suitable
model of an airplane, zeppelin or
flying beast on an 80mm base to
represent the Aircraft Marker.
Set Up the Strafing Run
As your first Activation during a Turn, you can call upon the air
support of Rudolf ’s Folly to carry out a Strafing Run. If you do
so, do not pick a model to Activate, but instead place the Aircraft
Marker touching any edge of the battlefield.
Once you have placed the Aircraft Marker, place the Strafing
Marker anywhere on the battlefield. It should be within 24” of
the Aircraft Marker, and placed so that the nose of the aircraft is
pointing straight at the Marker. This Marker can be placed on top
of terrain or other models, but it cannot be placed under any terrain
(for example, the Strafing Marker can be placed on the roof of a
building, but not on that building’s ground floor). Your Activation
then ends. You will be able to make an attack with the Aircraft
Marker in your next Activation, as long as the Aircraft Marker is
not shot down first!
Shoot it Down
Your opponent must now Activate a model. The model carries out
the Activation normally, but can use a Shoot ACTION to attack the
Aircraft Marker. No Line of Sight is required to make the Ranged
Attack as the aircraft is assumed to be flying above any intervening
MF
MF

-- 90 of 104 --

The Carcass Front Campaign	87
terrain, but 12” must be added to the Range to account for it being
high in the air. Grenades cannot be used to attack an Aircraft Marker.
Weapons with the BLAST Keyword that fail to hit the target will
not hit any other models with their BLAST, and those with the
SCATTER Keyword do not SCATTER if they fail to hit the target.
If the Ranged Attack is a Success or a Critical Success, do not make
an Injury Roll. Instead, roll on the following table to determine the
outcome:
Roll 	Result
2-7 	No Effect.
8-9 	Under Fire: Add -1 DICE to Success Rolls for the
Strafing Fire Ranged Attack (see below).
10-11 	Abort: The Aircraft Marker cannot take the Strafing
Run ACTION. Remove both the Aircraft Marker and
the Strafing Marker from the battlefield.
12 	Shot Down: The Aircraft Marker is destroyed and
removed from the battlefield, along with the Strafing
Marker. The model that made the Ranged Attack
completes the following Glorious Deed, in addition to
those available as standard for the scenario.
Down in Flames!: You complete this Glorious Deed if a
friendly model shoots down an enemy Aircraft Marker.
Strafing Fire
At the start of your next Activation, if the Aircraft Marker is still
on the battlefield you must take a Strafing Fire ACTION with
the Aircraft Marker instead of picking a model to Activate. When
you take a Strafing Fire ACTION, make a Ranged Attack with
the Aircraft Marker using the following Profile. After making the
attack, or if you cannot make one as there are no eligible targets,
remove both the Aircraft and Strafing Markers from the battlefield,
then your Activation ends.
Type 	Range 	Keywords
Special 	Special 	+1 DICE
Punish: When Strafing Fire is used to make a Ranged Attack,
measure a straight line a fraction of an inch (1mm) wide from the
Aircraft Marker to the Strafing Marker. Make a Success Roll for
each model, friend or foe, that is touched by the line to see if the
attack hits it. No Line of Sight is required.
Outposts Step
In the Outposts Step, the player who won the game establishes an
Outpost in the zone where the game was played. Show that you
have an Outpost at a zone by underlining the name of the zone in
the Scouted zones section of your Campaign Tracker. A Warband
can only have 1 Outpost in each zone, but a zone can have Outposts
from any number of different Warbands, and once an Outpost is
placed it cannot be removed. Establishing an Outpost in a zone
grants you 3 bonuses:
Defence Bonus: If you play a game in a zone where you have an
Outpost, and the opposing player is the Aggressor, you can begin
the scenario with up to 3 models counting as starting in Cover as
if they had Shovels (▶ see the Trench Crusade Rulebook).
Enclave Bonus: At the end of the campaign, the player who has
the most supplied Outposts scores additional 🏅. An Outpost is
being supplied if it is possible to trace a supply line of linked zones
from the Outpost’s zone back to the Warband’s Entry Zone. Each
zone in the supply line must include a friendly Outpost.
Special Zone Bonus: Some zones are called Special Zones and
confer an Outpost Bonus to a Warband when they establish an
Outpost in the zone. The bonus is shown on the Special Zones
table on the campaign map.
Winning the Campaign
Your success in the campaign is measured in Campaign Victory
Points, which are scored for the actions and decisions you’ll make in
a campaign. The primary way of scoring 🏅 is by filling in boxes on
your Campaign Tracker (▶ see the Campaign Tracker on page 80). In
addition to this, at the end of the campaign you can score 🏅 fulfilling
your Patron’s Vision and for achieving Shared Campaign Objectives.
PATRON VISIONS
The Vision card that you drew at the start of the campaign will
explain what you need to do to achieve your Patron’s vision, and
thus score additional 🏅 at the end of the campaign. Note that each
card has 3 different levels of Vision that can be achieved, and the
scores are cumulative for each level that you achieve.
Where Patron Visions require Warbands or models to achieve
certain goals within a game, or across multiple games, record any
information relevant to these goals as you proceed throughout the
campaign, in order to evidence which model(s) achieved them, as
well as where and when.
SHARED CAMPAIGN OBJECTIVES
The Carcass Front Map Campaign has 2 Shared Objectives that
any player can achieve at the end of the campaign. If two or more
players have achieved a Shared Objective, then the 🏅 are divided
between them, rounding fractions down to a minimum of 1. The
Shared Objectives are:
Herald of Leviathan: The player(s) with the most Omens of
Leviathan scores 6 🏅.
Largest Enclave: The player who has the most supplied Outposts
scores 8 🏅. An Outpost is being supplied if it is possible to trace
a supply line of linked zones from the Outpost’s zone back to the
Warband’s Entry Zone. Each zone in the supply line must include
a friendly Outpost.
END OF CAMPAIGN SCORING
After all players have played the agreed number of games in the
campaign, they will need to gather together to find out who is the
victor. Follow these steps to determine who wins the campaign:
1. Each player adds up the 🏅 they have scored on their Campaign
Trackers.
2. Determine which player achieved which Shared Campaign
Objective and allocate Titles and the corresponding 🏅
appropriately.
3. The players reveal their Patron Vision and add any 🏅 gained for
fulfilling it.
4. Add the 🏅 from the three previous steps together to get each
player’s final Campaign Score.
The player with the most 🏅 is the winner! In the case of a tie, all
tied players are joint winners.

-- 91 of 104 --

The Path to Leviathan Campaign	88
The PATh 	To 	leviAThAn CAmPAiGn
“Welcome to my humble abode, fellow pilgrim. I see many woes in
your bearing but, pray, cast them off at the threshold, for those that
beset you now shall be as a bountiful spring rain next to those that the
coming strife will visit upon us all. That one of your kind comes to an
outcast such as myself tells me that 1914 will indeed be the Year All
Shall Rue. Ah yes, I see in your eyes that you know this already. You
know, as this old man’s bones know, that a great and terrible storm is
rising. Come, look and see, I have my map already prepared.
“Here, yes, these lands at the farthest reaches of the eastern
Mediterranean were once home to myriad kingdoms: Jordan,
Lebanon, Syria, and many others that have since fallen to desolation
before Hell’s wrothful hosts. We call this region the Levant, a land
once possessed of a beauty to match lost Eden, now reduced to a
charnel house of fly-blown corpses. I have seen the endless trenches,
the hell of rats gnawing on the bones of martyrs as maggots writhe in
their bellies, and I again curse those Templars who long ago unleashed
this War Eternal.
“But now a cursed name worms its way into the hearts of men, carried
on pestilential winds and given fresh wings by muttering shadows.
Perhaps you have heard it? Indeed, you must have, for it passes from
tremulous mouth to unwilling ear, shrouded in rumour and obscured
by vexing prophecy. The afflicted madmen in their mountain citadel
scream of the Great Serpent’s awakening, and a poor haruspex such as
I reads the truth in bloodied entrails then weeps into my offal bowl.
“You have felt it beneath your feet, yes? It poisons the shore, seeping
into soil with despair, and the Earth itself recoils at the prospect of such
an evil, once thought slain by the Almighty, rising once again. It speaks
to me in dreams, you know? Recurring nightmares of the ocean boiling
at the slaughters to come, blood sinking in crimson veils to a lightless
abyss long since forsaken by God. Every night, I feel its bilious envy
reach out to curdle the souls of the weak, sowing bitter seeds that revel
in all that is chaotic and evil.
“Depraved apostates of Hell and prophets of Heaven rally their
followers and converge on the Carcass Front, for such abomination
draws zealous souls to it as a lodestone attracts iron. Ha, you think
that I don’t see the knife in your hand, pilgrim? Is it to plunge into
my heart or to cut your own throat in anguish? I suspect I know, for
the serpent’s ancient name is carried before the legions of Hell, a curse
of grave-dirt upon the tongue, the death rattle of infants, and the
hammer of iron nails through divine flesh.
“Shall we speak it aloud together as we draw blades? Aye, we shall,
and our blood will be the first spilled in its name… Leviathan.”
TE

-- 92 of 104 --

The Path to Leviathan Campaign	89
In addition to the map-based campaign, Carcass Front also includes
the Path to Leviathan narrative campaign. The narrative campaign
focuses on the efforts of two opposing commanders who have
learned the legend of Leviathan and the prophecies surrounding
it: Blessed Bartolomeo and War Priest Charon. They have both
sought out warbands to bring to the haunted No Man’s Land of the
Carcass Front in order to pursue the prophecy of Leviathan, but
towards very different ends.
War Priest Charon is determined to awaken Leviathan and bind
it back into the service of Hell, supplanting one of the current
dukes in the process.
Blessed Bartolomeo seeks to fulfil his self-proclaimed destiny by
summoning and then slaying Leviathan in order to feast righteously
on its flesh, turn its skin into capes and give glory to God.
The Path to Leviathan narrative campaign is designed for two players,
one Faithful and one Fallen, but is open to Warbands from any faction
or their variants. Many competing factions will be loath to allow either
Bartolomeo or Charon to pursue their respective plans to fruition.
Scenarios
Summoning and subduing Leviathan is achieved through a
five-scenario interlinked campaign. The scenarios build towards
the end objective of summoning Leviathan. Faithful Warbands
pursuing Blessed Bartolomeo’s plan are looking to slay and consume
Leviathan (or at least bits of it) as the Revelations prophecy
commands. The Fallen Warbands of War Priest Charon seek to
unshackle Leviathan and return it to its ancient station as the
Serpent Head of Envy, supplanting the current Duke of Hell. A
third outcome is possible, where the summoning fails for any of a
number of reasons, holding the campaign to an overall draw.
The five scenarios in order are:
I – The Ruins of Nineveh Novus: The Warbands search the lost
city of Nineveh Novus for ancient tracts and clues to the location
of Leviathan’s altar and how to summon the great beast. Nineveh
Novus harbours great dangers for those who would pry into its
secrets, most of all a mighty curse that will expunge all life within
its precincts once evoked.
II – Domus Demetrius: The crumbling texts of long-dead scholars
reveal that flesh and bone will be needed as bait to tempt the
beast to the surface in the summoning. Only the freshest and
tenderest corpses of men will do, leading the Warbands to raid
the corpse depot called Domus Demetrius. There, vile carrion
eaters infest the corpse piles, making already noisome work all the
more treacherous.
III – The Steel Necropolis: A hook must be made, and a mighty
lance to drive between Leviathan’s impenetrable scales. The
Warbands must brave the Steel Necropolis and the roving attention
of its gigantic revenant-deity to steal the materials they will need.
IV – The Sword of God: The mightiest arm and thewed limbs will
be necessary to hook Leviathan and drag it to shore. No man nor
devil could achieve such a feat, but a mighty beast of steel and
steam rebuilt for such a purpose might. The Warbands fight for
possession of a mighty railway cannon long thought swallowed
by the sands, known as the Sword of God.
V – The Altar of Leviathan: At last the summoning can be made,
but who shall truly prevail amid such dread events? Who has
the strength to ensure the beast be leashed or slain? Amid the
crashing waves of Leviathan’s arrival and the angry intercessions
of its devotees, can the summoning even be completed? The
Warbands confront each other for the last time, to secure their
triumph or, perhaps, to watch victory turn to defeat.
PLAYING THE CAMPAIGN
The five scenarios in the Path to Leviathan campaign can be
played as a series of one-off games, or as a series of games that use
the campaign rules in between each battle. If you decide to use
the campaign rules between your games, you can either use the
Campaign Rules in the Trench Crusade Rulebook or the Carcass
Front Campaign rules in this book. Whichever method you use,
the scenarios must be played in order one after the other, and
the winner of the campaign is determined ▶ by the Campaign
Conclusions on page 90.
Patrons
Blessed Bartolomeo and War Priest Charon are presented as
potential Patrons for campaigns on the Carcass Front, and naturally
they make a good choice of Patron for Warbands in the Path to
Leviathan campaign. Given the stakes, however, many powers both
in the Hells and among the Faithful have Warbands pursuing the
prophecy, so any Patron may be chosen if the players agree.
Extending the Campaign
The Path to Leviathan can be extended if desired, whether you
are using the Campaign Rules or the Carcass Front Campaign.
To do so, you can add additional scenarios in between the “main
event” scenarios in this book by including those presented in
the Trench Crusade Rulebook, ones created using the Random
Scenario Generator, or the new scenarios published periodically
on the Trench Crusade website. If you are using the Carcass Front
Campaign rules, simply ensure that these five scenarios are played
in order throughout the campaign with the Altar of Leviathan
being the final game.
MF

-- 93 of 104 --

The Path to Leviathan Campaign	90
Campaign Conclusions
There are three potential conclusions to the narrative campaign:
The summoning fails. Due to a mixture of mischance, bad luck,
poor preparation, and the vigorous efforts of the opposing
Warbands, the summoning of Leviathan in Scenario V: The
Altar of Leviathan does not succeed at all. Many would say the
merciful hand of the Almighty can be seen in this outcome. If the
summoning fails, the overall campaign is declared a Draw.
Leviathan is summoned but not subdued. One Warband is
successful in calling the great beast to the surface and great
cataclysms are unleashed as a result. Without cannon-fired steel
from the Sword of God, however, Leviathan cannot be subdued
and eventually returns to the depths. This outcome occurs if a
Warband succeeds in summoning Leviathan in Scenario V: The
Altar of Leviathan but does not control the railway cannon from
Scenario IV: The Sword of God. If Leviathan is summoned but not
subdued, the Warband that summoned it claims a Minor Victory
in the campaign.
Leviathan is summoned and subdued. One Warband is successful
in calling Leviathan forth and then skewering its flesh with a
mighty hook fired from the Sword of God. This outcome occurs if
a Warband succeeds in summoning Leviathan in Scenario V: The
Altar of Leviathan and also has control of the railway cannon from
Scenario IV: The Sword of God. If Leviathan is summoned and
subdued in this way, the Warband that summoned it claims Total
Victory in the campaign.
At the end of the campaign, you can read out this eyewitness
account of what happened on the field of battle this day:
“I was there to see it, clinging to the highest tower of Alexandretta.
I was there, Witchburner, so don’t think to gainsay my words; I saw
the oceans bleed crimson as far as the horizon. I smelled the reek of
Leviathan’s unholy breath and saw the waters burn with its infernal
blood as the Sword of God pierced its iron hide. I saw the sky break
and the light of Heaven turn night into endless day. Its divine
radiance burned the eyes from my skull as I dared turn my gaze upon
God’s Kingdom, but I would do it again. For in that glance, I saw as
deeply as the Almighty sees, and you can break my body upon your
wheel, pluck the nails from my fingers, or hammer my limbs to the
cross for such blasphemy. I care not.
“I witnessed the seas rise in base obeisance before Leviathan, for is
that not its dominion? I saw its infinite forms, though I have not
skill enough with words to give them name upon my tongue. Serpent.
Dragon. Monster. Evil Absolute. Its impossible anatomy broke the
surface, and the ocean emptied as though fleeing its terrible aspect.
Titanic waves scoured the lands and swept the works of man away. All
but the mightiest of Alexandretta’s towers were toppled, thanks be to
God, and the waves raced north to crash upon the walls of Amoudet
and Svaranda. The Tower of Jonah fell and its holy guardian was
unseated from his watchful perch to begin his lonely wanderings
through the desolation left in Leviathan’s wake.
“A flood like that which Noah endured mocked the lofty heights of the
Amanus Mountains, crashing over summits and slopes that once lay
beneath the waters in the days before humans walked upright. The
boiling waters of the Middle Sea spilled between the crowned peaks
to the cities of the Levant and the roar of Hell’s wrath went before it,
deafening all in its path. The defences of Baghras were as nothing to its
power, drowning those within and turning the lands before Melessin
into a lake of bloated corpses and ruin. The Lord’s mercy spared New
Antioch, and the ocean withdrew, but not before the waters lapped
its walls, blinded its salted saints, and set rust upon the Anchorites
interred within its holy bastions.
“So, aye, Witchburner, do your worst, for I have seen the light of
Heaven and felt the vengeance of Hell, so your torments are nothing to
me. Leviathan is no more, but may God forgive us for what we have
unleashed here…”
If the Faithful side won, add this section:
“In the name of God, Leviathan is slain and the flesh shorn from its
bones. It is a merciful thing that we have done here, for its last breath
was one of release as much as it was of death. In devotion we proclaimed
the beast’s doom and with our lives we smote it righteously. And this
great deluge? It is to be welcomed, for it washes this land of evil’s touch,
of attachments to corporeal pleasures. Of all the Faithful, who but we
know the lie of comfort best? Who but the Afflicted understand that the
Road of Suffering is the only sure and certain route to Salvation?
“The Great Serpent’s scales mantle my shoulders and its hide is my
cloak. As decreed by the Almighty, its flesh will be as a banquet held
in anticipation of the feast given to the righteous on the advent of the
Last Messiah. The serpent’s remains sink back into the abyss, where
the creatures of the ocean will consume what few scraps still cling to its
bones. Yet the evil of Leviathan remains in all who beheld it, a plague
of apostasy we shall cleanse from God’s sight. Truly, our work is not yet
done, for that which the Lord put upon this Earth can never truly die…”
If the Fallen side won, add this section instead:
“To the last, you grappled with me, but for hate’s sake I tore out your
throat to be baptised in the bloody gush of your death. Your names are
legion, Tiamat, Father of Serpents, Tunnanu… you who were wrought
by God to proclaim his omnipotence and dominion over chaos. I spit
disdain upon a divine tyrant who crafts his own enemy, only to cast
them down by his own hand! How fragile an ego, how pathetic a deity
to crave the adoration of mortals. By a warrior’s enemies ought he
be judged, and as did False Pádraig, I have cast out the serpent that
soiled Paradise and sired the tempter of Eve. The Sons of Abraham
were prophesied to feast upon your flesh at the End of Days, but what
morsels are left for them to dine on now? Spoiled meat and hollow
bones, a rotting carcass that even now sinks into the benighted abyss.
“Leviathan’s numinous power, that primal fire forged on God’s anvil,
is unshackled from its prison of flesh. This victorious day! This profane
day! I claim that power. Its doom earns me that right. I feel it within
me, creation’s muse, promethean and boundless. From a life lived on
scabbed knees, to one where I will claw the Dukes of Hell from their
unearned thrones and trample their worthless bones beneath my
booted heel. I am Leviathan and it is me, a dark union that mocks
Heaven and stands at the gates of Hell demanding its due!”

-- 94 of 104 --

Carcass Front Exploration Tables	91
CArCAss 	fronT 	exPlorATion TABles
The Exploration Tables in the Carcass Front Campaign are divided
by Resource rather than rarity. When you make an Exploration
Roll, you can choose whichever table corresponds to a Resource
that is available in the zone where the game took place.
FAVOUR 👁 EXPLORATION TABLE
Roll 	Location
1-3 	Shaken: After the horror of the fight, a soldier’s world
view frays at the edges. Your leader must reassert their
divinely ordained authority. Gain your choice of either
+🏺, or +📦, or +🌍. Then pick one model that does
not have the ELITE Keyword and roll to see if they die,
as if it was the Trauma Step.
4-5 	Trench Shrine: You find a crude shrine erected by the
soldiers of the Great War. Some are made from artillery
shells or melted cannons, while a flag of the Sultanate
can be used to indicate a place of prayer. Choose one of
the following options:
Standard: Add a Troop Flag to your Warband’s
Arsenal.
Shrine: Add a Field Shrine to your Warband’s Arsenal.
Return: Your Warband gains +2 ☼.
6-9 	Rival Icon: You come across an effigy of your Patron’s
rival and defile it appropriately. You may immediately
exchange up to 2 ☼ for an equal number of 🏅.
10-12 	Fallen Knight: You find a fallen hero of past ages.
Perhaps a Knight of Saint Solomon, a Sufi Dervish
of the House of Pillars, or a Plague Knight from the
Corpse Wars. Choose one of the following options:
Loot: Add a suit of Reinforced Armour, a Combat
Helmet, and a Great Sword to your Warband’s
Arsenal.
Memorialise: Your Warband gains 2 ☼.
13-15 	Duelling Grounds: You find a makeshift gladiatorial
pit drenched with the blood of both heathen and holy.
Your Warband deigns to add another shade to the soil.
Gain +👁 and pick 2 models in your Warband without
the ELITE Keyword and that can be Promoted.
Then flip a coin or roll odds/evens on a D6. If Heads/
Odds, the first model you picked is the victor; if Tails/
Evens, the second model is the victor. Roll to Promote
the victor with 3D6 as if it was the Promotions and
Experience Step. If you fail this roll, or are already at
the maximum number of models with the ELITE
Keyword, your Warband gains 3 ☼ instead. Then roll a
D6. On a roll of 1-4, the loser was killed or very badly
wounded in the duel, and you must remove them from
your Warband Roster.
16-17 	Ruined Church/Masjid/Synagogue: You find a great
shrine, temple, or other religious building of faith.
Upon its altar rests an object of great power waiting for
you. Choose one of the following options:
Report: Your Warband gains 4 ☼.
Keep: Choose one Glory Item worth up to 10 ☼, and
add it to your Arsenal.
18-20 	Ritual Sacrifice: You end a life in the name of your
Patron, whether it be the unholy sacrifice of an
innocent, or the execution of a Heretic captive. You
may immediately exchange up to 5 ☼ for an equal
number of 🏅.
21-22 	Patron’s Reliquary: You establish a proud reliquary of
your Patron. Gain 2 +👁, and add a Patron’s Relic to
your Warband’s Arsenal. The Patron’s Relic is a piece of
Equipment that can be given to any model provided it
has the ELITE Keyword. A model that has a Patron’s
Relic gains the TOUGH Keyword, but loses the
INFILTRATOR Keyword if it has it, and the opposing
player can ignore the Cover and Defended Obstacle
modifiers for attacks that target the model.
23-25 	Failed Communicant Vat: You find a small tube of glass
and gold. Wiping away the dust reveals a coiled foetus
floating amidst amniotic fluid, bulging with muscles
and wearing the face of an old man. Choose one of the
following options:
Faithful Warbands: The wisdom of the Meta-
Christ shines out of the infant’s wise eyes. Add a
Communicant Vat to your Warband’s Arsenal. It is a
piece of Equipment with the HELD Keyword and
can be given to any model. Add +2 DICE to your
Morale Checks while the model is on the Battlefield
and is not Down or Out of Action. In addition, you
gain 1 ☼ at the end of any game in which the model is
on the Battlefield and is not Down or Out of Action.
Fallen Warbands: Space bends around the imitation
child of God, as if to remove itself from your grasp.
Add a Failed Savior to your Warband’s Arsenal. It is
a piece of Equipment with the HELD Keyword and
can be given to any model. A model with the Failed
Savior gains the SKIRMISHER Keyword.
26-29 	Lock of Samson’s Hair: You discover a lock of the
champion Samson’s hair, imbued with the essence
of the strongest warrior to ever live. Add a Lock of
Samson’s Hair to your Warband’s Arsenal. It is a piece
of Equipment that can be given to any model. A model
with a Lock of Samson’s Hair gains the STRONG
Keyword. In addition add +1 INJURY DICE to rolls
for Melee Attacks made by a model with a Lock of
Samson’s Hair.
30-33 	Patron’s Visit: Your Patron or their representative makes
a surprise visit to your Warband. If you wish, you can
immediately exchange up to 10 ☼ for an equal number
of 🏅.
34+ 	Chosen Blessing: The mightiest of your Warband is
visited by your Patron in a vision. When they come to,
they are forever changed. Pick the model with the most
Experience in your Warband. Give them one Skill of
your choice. You can choose a Skill from any of the Skill
Tables, or any Exploration Skills. Alternatively, give them
2 Skills of your choice from their Patron Skill Table.

-- 95 of 104 --

Carcass Front Exploration Tables	92
RELIC 🏺 EXPLORATION TABLE
Roll 	Location
1-3 	Mugged: Someone made away with the goods. Gain
your choice of +👁, or +📦, or +🌍. Then lose 20 👑
from your Strongbox, to a minimum of 0 👑.
4-5 	Airship Wreckage: You come across the skeleton of
an airship of the Aeronautica Pontifica. Although its
combustive fuel burned away all but the duralumin
frame, part of its cargo remains unscathed. Choose one
of the following options:
Ammo Crate: Choose one piece of Battlekit with the
HEAVY Keyword from your Warband’s Armoury
Tables and add it to your Arsenal.
Papal Seal Lockbox: Choose one Glory Item with a
cost of up to 5 ☼, and add it to your Arsenal.
6-8 	Ruined Apocrypha: Burned, torn apart or otherwise
defiled, the promise of secrets lies in these fragmented
words. Add Ruined Apocrypha to your Warband’s
Arsenal. Gain 2 🏅 if either the Tarnished Apocrypha
or the Preserved Apocrypha is already in your Warband
Arsenal when you add the Ruined Apocrypha to it.
9-11 	Angelic Instrument: Exploring the battlefield you
discover an otherworldly instrument alongside the
shattered remains of a lesser angel – fallen or divine.
Add an Angelic Instrument to your Warband’s Arsenal.
It counts as a Musical Instrument except its Effect has
a range of 8” instead of 4”. If your Warband already
has a Musical Instrument, you can replace it with the
Angelic Instrument, but you do not get any 👑 for the
instrument that was replaced.
12-13 	Ransacked Alchemist Workshop: Amidst the rubble,
you find a few intact life-giving potions. Gain +🏺 and
add Curative Fluids to your Warband’s Arsenal. Once,
in any future Quartermaster Step, you can use the
Curative Fluids to remove 1 Battle Scar from a model in
your Warband (but not the other effects of a Trauma).
Remove the Curative Fluids from your Warband Roster
after they are used.
14-15 	Stylite Tower: You find one of the Stylite towers of
Saint Simeon, though the sniper-monk atop it has long
since perished. Add the Battlekit listed below for your
Faction to your Arsenal. If there are any items you are
not allowed to add to your Arsenal for any reason, add
their cost in 👑 to your Strongbox instead.
New Antioch or Trench Pilgrims: Sniper Rifle or
Sniper Scope.
Iron Sultanate: Siege Jezzail, Alchemical
Ammunition, and a Cloak of Alamut.
Heretic Legions: Automatic Rifle.
Black Grail: Corruption Belcher and Field Shrine.
The Court: Ophidian Rifle.
16-17 	Book of Golems: You find a Rabbinic manual on
creating Golems. Studying it allows you to create a
Golem. Add Takwin Homunculus from the House
of Wisdom Variant Warband in the Iron Sultanate
Faction List to your Warband. It has the Human Hands
Alchemical Formula, plus Alchemical Formulas worth
a total of up to 50 👑 for free (you do not have to pay
for the Formulas that you choose). The Golem has the
GOLEM Keyword and replaces the SULTANATE
Keyword with your Faction’s Keyword. You can
purchase Battlekit for it in the Quartermaster Step,
using your own Armoury Tables instead of the ones in
the Iron Sultanate Faction List. The model is treated
as an Ally that can never be Promoted or receive
additional Alchemical Formulas.
18-20 	Tarnished Apocrypha: Arcane illustrations and
intricate sigils, blemished by sun and earth. Add
Tarnished Apocrypha to your Warband’s Arsenal. Gain
5 🏅 if either the Ruined Apocrypha or the Preserved
Apocrypha is already in your Warband Arsenal when
you add the Tarnished Apocrypha to it.
21-22 	Esoteric Library: You find a concealed collection
of works on Goetic magic, blood sacrifice rites, and
grimoires on the summoning of demons. Gain 2 +🏺,
then choose one of the following options:
Burn (New Antioch, Trench Pilgrims, or Iron
Sultanate only): Your Warband gains 3+D3 ☼.
Release Plague (Black Grail only): A Black Grail
Warband may unleash a Plague from the books. At
the start of each game, after deployment, you can
place 1 INFECTION MARKER next to 1 model of
your choice (friend or foe).
Sell (Any Warband): Your Warband gains 6D6 x
10 👑.
Study (The Court or Heretic Legions only): At the
start of each game, after deployment, you can pick 1
model (friend or foe). Place 1 BLOOD MARKER
next to the model that you pick.
GD

-- 96 of 104 --

Carcass Front Exploration Tables	93
23-25 	Tank God Cultists: You find a trail of giant tank
treads, disconnected and distanced like footprints.
Within one, a group of pilgrims in oil-saturated clothes
prostrate themselves before a vast steel bolt the size of a
wagon. Choose one of the following options:
Bargain: From now on, in your Quartermaster Step,
models in your Warband can purchase Dum Dum
Bullets at a cost of 5 👑 each, Limit: 4.
Kill and Loot: Your Warband gains either 150 👑 or
5 ☼ (your choice).
Kill and Recruit (Trench Ghosts only): You may
recruit 1 Tank God Cultist to your Warband for no
cost. Tank God Cultists use the Mendelist Ammo
Monk Mercenary Warband Entry, but they do not
count as Mercenaries. They gain the HERETIC
Keyword, and count as a Trench Ghost for the
purposes of their Variant Special Rules.
26-29 	Treasure of the Holies: You find a special shine, be it the
Tabernacle of the Hebrews, an altar to the Morning Star
himself, a feretory founded by Saint Peter, or a place
where the Prophet visited. On its altar lies a treasure
chest containing an object of great power. Add 1 Glory
Item of your choice to your Arsenal. If you prefer, you
can take the treasure chest with you and choose the
Glory Item in any future Quartermaster Step.
30-33 	Preserved Apocrypha: A Gospel from the mother
of Christ, a map to the Philosopher’s Stone, or the
name of the Betrayer engraved in still-wet blood. Add
Preserved Apocrypha to your Warband’s Arsenal. Gain
10 🏅 if either the Ruined Apocrypha or the Tarnished
Apocrypha is already in your Warband Arsenal when
you add the Preserved Apocrypha to it.
34+ 	Divine Shards: You find the shards of a divine suit of
armour. Choose up to two suits of Armour from your
Warband’s Armoury, and note on your Warband Roster
that they have been reinforced with Divine Shards.
Suits of Armour treated with Divine Shards gain the
NEGATE FIRE, NEGATE GAS, and NEGATE
SHRAPNEL Keywords, unless they have them already.
If you have a New Antioch or Black Grail Warband,
you can hand the Divine Shards over to the Church or
Order of the Fly respectively instead of reinforcing suits
of Armour with them. If you do so, you gain +15 ☼.
SUPPLIES 📦 EXPLORATION TABLE
Roll 	Location
1-3 	Pillaged: Nothing worth taking. Some soldiers are
going to have to go without. Gain your choice of +👁,
or +🏺, or +🌍. Then pick 1 model in your Warband to
start the next game with 2 BLOOD MARKERS.
4-5 	Stalled Corpse Carriage: You find a carriage from
the Corpse Rail stalled on the way to the Domus
Demetrius, surrounded by hungry jackals who snarl as
you approach. Choose one of the following options:
Distract (New Antioch & Trench Pilgrims only):
Add +2 DICE to the Success Rolls for Morale
Checks in your next game.
Protect: (Faithful only): Up to 2 models in your
Warband with the ELITE Keyword earn +1
Experience Point each. If this entitles the model to an
Advancement Roll, make the roll immediately.
Scavenge (Any Warband): Add 30 👑 to your
Strongbox.
6-8 	Ruined House: This house has been obliterated by
heavy weaponry, its inhabitants ripped apart. Choose
one of the following options:
Rummage: Choose 1 or more pieces of Equipment
from your Warband’s Armoury Tables that are worth
a total of up to 30 👑, and add them to your Arsenal.
Relic: Choose 1 Glory Item worth up to 7 ☼ and add
it to your Arsenal.
Store: Gain 2 🏅.
9-11 	Fallen Pilgrim: You find the body of a pilgrim wearing
the colours of Blessed Bartolomeo. Choose 1 Melee
Weapon from your Warband’s Armoury worth up to
15 👑, and add it to your Arsenal along with a suit of
Standard Armour. Then roll a D6. On a 4+, you can
add one of the following to your Arsenal: a Medi-kit, a
Mountaineer’s Kit, or a Shovel.
12-13 	Killzone: In this small corner of No Man’s Land, you
find the corpses of civilians who were herded into an
area from which there was no escape. Choose one of the
following options:
Bury (Faithful only): Your Warband gains +2 ☼.
Pillage: You find a Trench Dog hiding beneath the
bodies. You can immediately give a Trench Dog to a
model in your Warband (you do not have to pay for
its Special Training).
Feast (Fallen only): Up to 2 models in your Warband
with the ELITE Keyword earn +1 Experience Point
each. If this entitles the model to an Advancement
Roll, make the roll immediately.
14-15 	Breaker King Tithe: You negotiate with (or threaten)
an envoy of the notorious scavenger known as the
Breaker King, gaining a commission on “recovered”
goods. Gain +📦. In addition, gain 10 👑 after each
Exploration Step (including this one).
GD

-- 97 of 104 --

Carcass Front Exploration Tables	94
16-17 	Battlefield of Corpses: You come across a scene of
terrible slaughter. The remains of humans from various
nations and Hellish creatures, fallen in various battles
over the past 800 years, lie torn and scattered across the
horizon, while the trenches that criss-cross this scene
are filled with blood. Choose up to 2 pieces of Battlekit
from your Warband’s Armoury Tables worth up to
100 👑, and add them to your Arsenal.
18-20 	Deserted Camp: You discover the vacated camp
building of a Warband seeking the same glory as you.
Choose one of the following options:
Outpost: Choose 1 or more pieces of Battlekit from
your Warband’s Armoury Tables that are worth a
total of up to 120 👑, and add them to your Arsenal.
Vault: Choose 1 or more Glory Items worth up to 9
☼, and add them to your Arsenal. In addition, when
you are choosing the items, reduce the cost of any
Weapons by 1 ☼ to a minimum of 1 ☼.
Shelter: Gain 5 🏅.
21-22 	Suspicious Convoy: You come across a convoy of
strange civilians who bear the heady scent of diesel and
raw salmon, chanting an uneasy, gurgling hymn. Gain 2
+📦, and also choose one of the following options:
Silence: Add +1 DICE to Success Rolls for Morale
Checks for your Warband for the rest of the
campaign.
Trade: Your Warband gains 120 👑.
Chant (Fallen only): Your Warband gains +4 ☼.
Heretic Naval Raiders must select this option.
23-25 	Orichalcum Crucible: You come across an abandoned
subterranean furnace, its sigil-scarred crucible cradling
a single orichalcum ingot. Choose one of the following
options:
Coat: Choose up to 3 Melee Weapons from your
Warband’s Arsenal or that have been given to a model
in your Warband. The Weapons gain the ARMOUR
PIERCING Keyword.
Alloy: Choose up to 2 Shields from your Warband’s
Arsenal or that have been given to a model in your
Warband. The Shields gain the IMPERVIOUS
Keyword.
Sell: Your Warband gains 100 👑 and 2 ☼.
26-29 	Abandoned Resurrection Machines: You find remnants
of machines that were once used by the Meta-Christ
Programme. Most of them are broken, torn apart by
some immense force, but one of them works and can be
dismantled. Add a Salvaged Resurrection Machine to
your Warband’s Arsenal. In any future Quartermaster
Step, you can use the Salvaged Resurrection Machine
to remove 1 Battle Scar and the effects of 1 Trauma
from a model in your Warband. Remove the Salvaged
Resurrection Machine from your Warband Roster after
it is used.
30-33 	Goldflesh Merchant: Two shackled lines of slaves strain
under the weight of a porcelain palanquin, atop which is
an even heavier-looking living statue. The bloated figure
with flesh of liquid gold beckons you to kneel before her,
then she will share with you her most valuable wares.
Choose one of the following options:
Kneel: Add 1 Aurum Shroud to your Arsenal. An
Aurum Shroud counts as Reinforced Armour with
the IMPERVIOUS Keyword, and may never be
unequipped when it is worn. In addition, if you are
a Fallen Faction, add 1 Wretched from the Heretic
Legions Warband List with no Battlekit to your
Warband at no cost.
Slaughter the Merchant and Steal/Employ/Free the
Slaves: Gain 10 🏅.
34+ 	Vivarium Vial: Whilst scavenging for rations, you find
a secret lockbox in a hidden compartment. Within lies
a vial containing a portion of the pure blood of one of
the Meta-Christs. Choose one of the following options:
Imbibe: Choose 1 model on a 32mm or smaller base
that does not have the DEMONIC or BLACK
GRAIL Keywords. This model can no longer
wear Armour (they can have Shields). They gain
the NEGATE FEAR Keyword and BLOOD
MARKERS are never placed on them under any
circumstances.
Distil: Pick 2 models in your Warband. They gain the
STRONG Keyword.
Spoil (Fallen Warbands only): Gain 10 ☼.
GD
GD

-- 98 of 104 --

Carcass Front Exploration Tables	95
TERRITORIES 🌍 EXPLORATION TABLE
Roll 	Location
1-3 	Lost: The trenches are unforgiving, and your legs grow
heavy with exhaustion. Gain your choice of +👁, +🏺,
or +📦. Add -1 DICE to the first DASH Action made
by each model in your Warband next game.
4-5 	Scout Report: The labyrinthine web of trenches that
forms No Man’s Land is easy to get lost in, but your
scouting party report back with a helpful sketch of the
surroundings. You can add or subtract 1 from your
Exploration Rolls for the rest of the campaign.
6-8 	Survivor: You find a soldier staggering in No Man’s
Land: a deserter, perhaps, or a poor benighted
infantryman whose comrades were wiped out by one of
the horrors roaming the battlefields of the Great War.
It is time to put them to work. Add the model listed
below for your Faction to your Warband. The model
does not have any Battlekit (you can purchase Battlekit
for it in the Quartermaster Step).
New Antioch: A Yeoman without a Ranged
Weapon.
Trench Pilgrims: Ecclesiastical Prisoner.
Iron Sultanate: Azeb.
Heretic Legions or The Court: Wretched.
Black Grail: Grail or Fly Thrall.
9-11 	Unsettling Merchant: You are approached by a
gibbering Merchant, glassy eyed and drenched in a
thin layer of mucus. For the rest of the campaign all
Warbands (on both sides) can purchase Glory Items
costing 5 ☼ or less in the Quartermaster Step. You must
inform all of the other players in the campaign of this.
In addition, you gain 2 🏅.
12-13 	Scarred Wanderer: Through the sunset haze, a figure
stumbles into view. Unafraid of your appearance or the
weapons trained on him, he weeps words in a language
you don’t understand, before collapsing in front of
you. On his blistered back, an intricately scarred
labyrinth. Your Warband gains +🌍 and the Re-roll
Exploration Skill.
14-15 	Whispers in the Mud: You hear voices around you,
but your eyes find no ambush. Lifting your feet, brown
water pools into boot-prints, in which the reflections
of paranoid faces whisper of secrets beneath the waves.
Choose one of the following options:
Heed: Your Warband gains the Extra Dice
Exploration Skill.
Denounce: Your Warband gains + 2 ☼.
16-18 	Silk Road Traders: Following a series of unknown
runes, you find a market run by an ancient order of
tradesfolk, faithful only to coin. For the rest of the
campaign all Warbands (on both sides) can purchase
Glory Items costing 8 ☼ or less in the Quartermaster
Step. You must inform all of the other players in the
campaign of this. In addition, you gain 5 🏅.
19-20 	Second Shadow: You notice that a pack of vultures
has followed your Warband’s every move since you
entered the Carcass Front. Choose one of the following
options:
Train: Your Warband gains the Duplicate
Exploration Skill.
Target Practice: One ELITE model in your Warband
gains the Sharp Eyes Skill.
21-22 	Salvaged Personnel Carrier: You find a hollowed-out
shell of steel and concrete, awkwardly hunched atop
four rubber wheels and a grumbling engine. Once you
clear out the corpses, you find it even has a full tank of
fuel. Gain 2 +🌍, and from now on, when you are the
Aggressor, you can choose zones for the game that are
up to 2 zones away from your Entry Zone or a zone you
have Scouted.
23-25 	High-Ranking Captive: You capture a high-ranking
enemy: perhaps a prophet of the Lazarine Ascension
atop a donkey laden with holy icons and boils, a Naval
Raider steersman in hulking, multi-eyed armour, or
some other important personage. Choose one of the
following options:
Ransom: Your Warband gains 100 👑.
Execute: Your Warband gains +4 ☼.
Imprison: Choose 1 Glory Item with a cost of up to
8 ☼, and add it to your Arsenal.
Indenture: You keep the captive as a guide. Your
Warband gains the Set Dice Exploration Skill.
26-29 	Sworn Sword: The Carcass Front attracts many
sellswords and treasure hunters, and one wishes to
pledge their blade to you. You can immediately recruit
1 Mercenary available to your Warband for no cost. If
none are available or you cannot recruit Mercenaries,
you may immediately recruit 1 ELITE model without
the LEADER Keyword to your Warband for no cost
in 👑 (normal restrictions and limits apply). You may
buy Battlekit for this model during the Quartermaster
Step.
30-33 	Envoy of the Merchant Princes: A power unto itself,
the Black Network notices your dominance in the field
of battle and rewards it with a growing presence. For
the rest of the campaign all Warbands (on both sides)
can purchase Glory Items costing 12 ☼ or less in the
Quartermaster Step. You must inform all of the other
players in the campaign of this. In addition, you gain
10 🏅.
34+ 	The Knife of God: You find a great ballistic
emplacement in nearly working order – seemingly
a smaller re-creation of the Sword of God on the
Carrion Coast. With some tinkering, soon enough
you have a functioning mobile artillery piece. Add one
Sacred Cannonade to your Warband’s Arsenal (use the
Sultanate Grand Cannon Battlekit profile from the
Defenders of the Iron Wall Warband Variant, in the
Trench Crusade Rulebook).

-- 99 of 104 --

Game Design
Andy Chambers, Brook Close, Giovani C. Fiorini, Jervis Johnson,
Tuomas Pirinen
Narrative Design
Georgina Fenouillet, Graham McNeill
Editing
Marc Gascoigne, Alexander Winberg
Proofreading
Lyle Lowery, Mira Manga, Claire Rushbrook
Book Design
Spiridon Giannakis
Graphic Design
Matteo Ceresa, Viktor Pushkarev
Miniatures and Terrain
Natalia Romero Alfonso, Garbriel Caramello, Miriam French,
Aragorn Marks, Loïc Muzy, James Sherriff
Miniatures Painting
Martin Grandbarbe, Sébastien Lavigne, Loïc Muzy,
Stéphane N'guyen
Book Cover Art
Thomas Elliott
Box Cover Art
Pedro Núñez
Production
Jamie Parsons, Alexander Winberg
Latin Prose Composition
Nicholas "Jiro" Ceccarani, In servitio Crusis
Artists
Max Bedulenko [MB]
Guy Davis [GD]
Artem Demura [AD]
Gustave Doré, Héliodore Pisan [Page 7]
Thomas Elliott [TE]
Mike Franchina [MF]
Eva Giunchi [EG]
Kassini Illustration [KI]
Moritz Krebs [MK]
Chandler Lieve [CL]
Valin Mattheis [VM]
Martin McCoy [MM]
Loïc Muzy [LM]
Viktor Pushkarev [VP]
Eryk Szczygieł [ES]
© [2026] Factory Fortress Inc. All rights reserved.
This book and all content herein, including but not limited to
text, rules, characters, settings, artwork, and layout design, are the
intellectual property of Factory Fortress Inc. and are protected
by United States and international copyright laws. No portion of
this publication may be reproduced, distributed, or transmitted in
any form or by any means, including photocopying, recording, or
other electronic or mechanical methods, without the prior written
permission of the copyright holder, except in the case of brief
quotations embodied in critical reviews or articles. No part of this
book may be used as data for “training” any large language model,
or as part of any machine learning or neural network architecture.
Human creativity is precious, and creatives deserve to be paid.
Permission is granted to individual purchasers to make copies for
personal, non-commercial use during play.
All trademarks, service marks, product names, and logos appearing
in this publication are the property of Factory Fortress Inc. Any
commercial use, including but not limited to reproduction in
products, publications, or digital platforms, is strictly prohibited
without prior written authorization.
This work is entirely a work of fiction. The names, characters and
incidents portrayed in it are the work of the writers’ imagination.
Any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, events or
localities is entirely coincidental.
Gustave Doré, Héliodore Pisan, Page 7:
Frederic Lewis/Archive Photos via Getty Image
Published by Factory Fortress Inc.
First edition 2026. Printed in Poland by Fabryka Kart.
Factory Fortress Inc
2973 Harbor Blvd #793
92626 Costa Mesa
California USA
www.trenchcrusade.com

-- 100 of 104 --



-- 101 of 104 --



-- 102 of 104 --



-- 103 of 104 --



-- 104 of 104 --

