CarCass Front Zones
This table lists the resources and scenarios for each zone on the Carcass Front Campaign map. The scenarios can be
found in this book or the Trench Crusade Rulebook.
Zone 	Resources 	Scenario
Altar of Leviathan 	👁 🏺 📦 	Altar of Leviathan
Baghras Fortress 	🏺 🌍 	Fields of Glory
Basarfuth Castle 	🏺 📦 	Supply Raid
Botfly Valley 	🏺 	Random Trench Lines Scenario
Carrion Coast 	👁 	Random Derelict Ruins Scenario
Cathedral of Wire 	🏺 	Random Derelict Ruins Scenario
Desolate Trapesac 	📦 	Random No Man’s Land Scenario
Domus Demetrius 	👁 📦 🌍 	Domus Demetrius
Fields of Green Flame 	📦 	Random Trench Lines Scenario
Geist Spires 	📦 🌍 	Supply Raid
Guillaume Basin 	🌍 	Random Trench Lines Scenario
Holy Choked Path 	👁 🌍 	Claim No Man’s Land
House of Pillars 	🏺 📦 	Relic Hunt
Kurd Dagh 	👁 🏺 🌍 	The High Ground
Kyrrhos City 	👁 	Random No Man’s Land Scenario
Little Jahannam 	🏺 	Random Derelict Ruins Scenario
Lost Shih-al-Hadid 	🌍 	Random No Man’s Land Scenario
Martyr’s Crossing 	👁 📦 	Claim No Man’s Land
Mi’ilya Outskirts 	🌍 	Random No Man’s Land Scenario
North Amanus Trenches 	👁 	Random Trench Lines Scenario
Pilgrimage of Stone 	📦 	Random No Man’s Land Scenario
Pillar of Jonah 	🏺 📦 🌍 	Trench Warfare
Risen Ruins 	🏺 	Random Derelict Ruins Scenario
Ruins of Nineveh Novus 	👁 🏺 🌍 	Ruins of Nineveh Novus
Sacred Plains 	🏺 	Random No Man’s Land Scenario
Scavenger Towns 	📦 	Claim No Man’s Land
Shadow of Old Saints 	👁 🏺 	Hunt for Heroes
South Amanus Trenches 	👁 🌍 	Hunt for Heroes
Steel Necropolis 	👁 📦 🌍 	Steel Necropolis
Syrian Gate 	🌍 	Random No Man’s Land Scenario
The Sword of God 	👁 📦 🌍 	The Sword of God
The Vivarium 	👁 🏺 📦 	Dragon Hunt
SPECIAL ZONE OUTPOST BONUSES
Each Special Zone confers an Outpost Bonus to Warbands that have an Outpost in that zone.
Zone 	Outpost Bonus
Altar of
Leviathan
Special rules apply to playing games in this zone (▶ see page 83).
Baghras
Fortress
In the Quartermaster Step following the game where you establish an Outpost in this zone, you can
recruit Mercenaries for half their listed cost in ☼ (rounded up).
Domus
Demetrius
The first player to establish an Outpost here adds one Omen of Leviathan to their Warband’s Arsenal.
In addition, if you have an Outpost in this zone it counts as two zones (instead of one) when working
out which Warband has the longest supply line.
House of
Pillars
Add +1 DICE to Success Rolls for Morale Checks for your Warband if you have an Outpost in this
zone.
Kurd Dagh 	You can re-roll one Promotion roll each Promotions & Experience Step if you have an Outpost in
this zone.
Ruins of
Nineveh
Novus
The first player to establish an Outpost in this zone adds one Omen of Leviathan to their Warband’s
Arsenal. In addition, you can add or subtract 1 from your Exploration Roll if you have an Outpost at
this zone.
Pillar of
Jonah
If you have an Outpost in this zone and you play a game at this zone or a zone that is linked to it, the
opposing Warband starts the game with 2 BLOOD MARKERS distributed amongst their models
as they wish. Note that if the opposing Warband also had an Outpost in this zone, you will start the
game with 2 BLOOD MARKERS as well!
Steel
Necropolis
In the Quartermaster Step following the round where you establish an Outpost in this zone, Armour
and Shields cost half the listed price in 👑 (rounded up). In addition, the first player to establish an
Outpost here adds one Omen of Leviathan to their Warband’s Arsenal.
The Sword
of God
In the Quartermaster Step following the round where you place an Outpost in this zone, Ranged
Weapons cost half the listed price in 👑 (rounded up). In addition, the first player to establish an
Outpost here adds one Omen of Leviathan to their Warband’s Arsenal.
The Vivarium 	If you have an Outpost in this zone, you can re-roll one Trauma roll in each of your Outcome Phases.
CARCASS FRONT SCENARIO GENERATOR CHARTS
Roll once on the following charts to determine the deployment that is used for a random scenario in a campaign game,
then roll a second time to determine the Victory Conditions that apply to the game. All random scenarios have a game
length of 6 Turns in a Carcass Front Campaign.
D6
No Man’s Land 	Decimated Ruins 	Trench Lines
Deployment 	Victory
Conditions
Deployment 	Victory
Conditions
Deployment 	Victory
Conditions
1-2 	Standard
Deployment
Sabotage 	Flank Attack 	Attritional
Battle
Flank Attack 	Attritional
Battle
3-4 	Tunnels 	Over the Top 	Fog of War 	Sabotage 	Tunnels 	Breakthrough
5-6 	Long Distance
Battle
Take and Hold 	Chance En-
counter
Retrieve 	Long Distance
Battle
Over the Top

-- 1 of 2 --



-- 2 of 2 --

