Trench Crusade is a skirmish-scale tabletop miniatures game that plunges players deep into a horrifying alternate timeline.
During the Crusades, a heretical order of Templars dared defy the Almighty, breaking their sacred oaths and unleashing the
forces of Hell upon the Earth. Now, over eight hundred years later, in the Year of Our Lord 1914, this brutal and merciless war
between the forces of Heaven and Hell rages on. This is not merely a fight for survival. This is a cataclysmic struggle that will
decide the very fate of humanity’s soul. As both sides of the Great War prepare for massive new offensives, a different struggle
takes place in the shattered wasteland of No Man’s Land. Here, small warbands of combatants stalk the cratered earth, scarred
by artillery and ravaged by centuries of war. These warbands gather information and ancient artefacts, seek out enemy scouts and
high-value targets. Some are saboteurs and assassins, working deep behind enemy lines. Many are on holy (or unholy!) missions
to obtain relics or perform blood-soaked rituals in long-lost temples, churches, and basilicas. Others scour the front for vessels
worthy of possession or sacrifice.
What You Need To Play
** A Warband of Trench Crusade miniatures to lead into battle.
** A flat surface to use as the battlefield on which your Warbands
will fight. A dining table is ideal to begin with.
** Terrain (and lots of it).
** Three sets of six-sided dice (D6) in different colours.
** A tape measure with imperial inches.
** The Trench Crusade Rulebook.
** Friends – no one fights the Great War alone.
Quickstart Rules
The following rules explain how to play Trench
Crusade in a quick and easy to use format. For more
detailed explanations of the rules and additional
information on how they work, download the current
version of the Trench Crusade Digital Rulebook from
our website at www.trenchcrusade.com. A game of
Trench Crusade is divided into Turns, which are split
into an Initiative Phase, an Activation Phase, and
a Morale Phase.
1

-- 1 of 4 --

The Initiative Phase
The player with the lowest number of models in their
Warband has the Initiative, and can choose to Activate a
model first or second. If both players have the same number of
models, each player rolls a dice and whoever rolls the highest
has the Initiative.
The Activation Phase
If you have the Initiative, you must choose a model in
your Warband and Activate it. Your opponent must then
Activate a model, and so on, back and forth until all models
have been Activated. A model cannot be Activated more
than once per Turn.
ACTIONS
The Activated model can take the following ACTIONS once
each, in any order you wish:
Move or Charge or Retreat: You can use an ACTION
to Move or Charge or Retreat with your model, but
not more than one.
** Move: You can move your model a number of inches
equal to its Movement Characteristic in any direction
(no roll is required). Obstacles up to 1” high can be
crossed without penalty, and your model can climb sheer
surfaces if you first pass a Risky Success Roll. Difficult
terrain is crossed at half speed. A Move ACTION
cannot be used to move a model within 1” of an enemy
model (you must use a Charge Action instead).
** Charge: Pick an enemy model that is visible to your
model and within 12” of it as the target of the charge.
Then roll a dice, add the result to your model’s
Movement Characteristic and move it towards the
target. If your model finishes its move within 1” of the
target, it can Fight.
** Retreat: You can only move a model that is within
1” of an enemy by taking a Retreat ACTION. A
retreating model moves a number of inches equal to its
Movement Characteristic in any direction but it must
end its retreat move more than 1” away from all enemy
models. Your opponent can take a Fight ACTION
with 1 Melee Weapon before the retreating model is
moved away. If this takes your model Down or Out of
Action it is not moved.
Dash: A Dash ACTION can be carried out in addition
to a Move, Charge or Retreat ACTION. You can move
your model a number of inches equal to its Movement
Characteristic in any direction, but you must take a Risky
Success Roll for the model first. If you succeed, your model
can move (it cannot charge or retreat). If you fail, the model’s
Activation ends.
Shoot: You can make a Ranged Attack with your model if it is
more than 1” from an enemy and has a Ranged Weapon. Your
model cannot Shoot and take a Charge or Fight ACTION
in the same Activation, unless it uses a weapon that has the
ASSAULT Keyword.
Fight: You can make a Melee Attack with your model if it is
within 1” of an enemy and has a Melee Weapon.
Other: Some models have other ACTIONS they can take
during their Activations.
Success Rolls
To take a Success Roll, roll two dice, add any +DICE or
-DICE to the roll as described below, pick the two highest
(or lowest if any -DICE were used), add them together, and
consult the table below to see if you have succeeded. The
instructions for the task you are carrying out will tell you
what happens if you succeed or fail. If you are taking a Risky
Success Roll and you fail, the model’s Activation is over and
your opponent can now Activate one of their models!
Success Table
Roll 	Result
2-6 	Failure.
7-11 	Success.
12+ 	Critical Success. Add +1 INJURY DICE
to Ranged or Melee Attacks if you roll a
Critical Success.
+Dice and -Dice
Rules often have modifiers to Success Rolls marked as
+DICE and -DICE. These are shown in the format “+1
DICE” or “-1 DICE”.
For each +DICE, add 1 dice to the Success Roll. Then
roll all the dice and pick the 2 highest rolls. For example,
+1 DICE means you roll 3 dice and pick the 2 highest.
If +2 DICE are added, roll 4 dice and pick the 2
highest, and so on.
The -DICE works in reverse. For each -DICE, add 1
dice to the Success Roll and pick the 2 lowest numbers.
For example, -1 DICE means you roll 3 dice and
pick the 2 lowest.
If both +DICE and -DICE are added to the same Success
Roll, remove pairs of +DICE and -DICE until only one
type is remaining. For example, if a roll had +2 DICE and
-1 DICE, one of the +1 DICE and the -1 DICE would
be removed, leaving +1 DICE to be added to the roll.
COMBAT
Combat is divided into Ranged Attacks and Melee Attacks.
Ranged Attacks are carried out when you take a Shoot
ACTION with a model, and Melee Attacks when you take a
Fight ACTION with a model.
2

-- 2 of 4 --

RANGED ATTACKS
1. Choose a Ranged Weapon, then pick a target that is visible
to your model and in range of the weapon.
2. Take a Success Roll for the attacking model.
3. If the roll is a Failure, the attack misses and has no effect.
If the roll is a Success it hits, so make an Injury Roll roll
for the target. Add +1 INJURY DICE if the attack was a
Critical Success.
SHOOTING INTO MELEE
If a target is within 1” of any friendly models, roll a dice
to determine who is attacked: on a 1 – 3 you must target
a friendly model; on a 4 – 6 you can target an enemy
model. Take a Success Roll as normal once the target has
been determined.
RANGED ATTACK MODIFIERS
Shooting from an elevated position: Add +1 DICE if the
attacking model is at least 3” higher than the target.
Cover: Add -1 DICE if the target is in cover. A model is in
cover if it is in contact with a terrain piece that is at least ½”
high and as wide as its base, and the terrain piece lies between
it and the attacking model.
Long Range: Add -1 DICE if the range to the target is more
than half of the weapon’s maximum range.
MELEE ATTACKS
1. Choose a Melee Weapon and pick a target within
1” of your model.
2. Take a Success Roll for the attacking model.
3. If the roll is a Failure, the attack misses and has no effect.
If the roll is a Success it hits, so make an Injury Roll roll
for the target. Add +1 INJURY DICE if the attack was a
Critical Success.
MELEE ATTACK MODIFIERS
Multiple Melee Weapons: If your model is armed with two
Melee Weapons, it may attack with both, one after the other in
the order of your choice. Add -1 DICE for the second attack.
Fear: Add -1 DICE if your opponent has the FEAR Keyword.
If both models cause FEAR the effect is cancelled out.
Defended Obstacle: Add -1 DICE if the target is in cover. A
model is in cover if it is in contact with a terrain piece that is at
least ½” high and as wide as its base, and the terrain piece lies
between it and the attacking model.
Diving Charge: A model may attempt a Diving Charge
against enemy models that are at least 3” below it. Take a Risky
Success Roll for the model. If the roll is a Failure the model is
taken Down, and a Falling Injury Roll must then be taken for
the model. If the roll is a Success, you do not have to take a
Falling Injury Roll for the model, and you can add +1 DICE
to the next Melee Attack that the model makes.
FALLING
When a model Jumps, Dives, or Falls 3” or more, there is a
chance it will be injured. To see if this happens, make an Injury
Roll for the model, and add +1 INJURY DICE for every 3”
that the model fell.
Injury Rolls
To make an Injury Roll, roll two dice and add any +INJURY
DICE or -INJURY DICE to the roll. +/-INJURY DICE
work in the same way as +/- DICE but modify Injury
Rolls instead of Success Rolls. Pick the two highest dice (or
lowest if any -INJURY DICE were used). Any INJURY
MODIFIERS that apply are then added to the roll, and the
modified roll is looked up on the table below:
Injury Table
Roll 	Result
1 or less 	No Effect. The model is unharmed, and the
injury has no effect.
2-6 	Minor Hit. Place 1 BLOOD MARKER
next to the model.
7-8 	Down. Place 1 BLOOD MARKER next to
the model and mark them as being Down. If
the model is already Down, place 2 BLOOD
MARKERS next to the model instead of 1.
9+ 	Out of Action. The model has been seriously
injured or killed and is removed from play.
Injury Roll and Result Modifiers
The following modifiers are cumulative. The maximum
-INJURY MODIFIER cannot be more than -3 in total.
** Blessing Markers: Add -1 INJURY DICE for each
BLESSING MARKER that is spent.
** Blood Markers: Add +1 INJURY DICE for each
BLOOD MARKER that is spent.
** Critical Success: Add +1 INJURY DICE.
** Down: Add +1 INJURY DICE for a Melee Attack if
the target is Down.
** Abilities or Keywords: Add any +/-INJURY DICE
and/or any +/-INJURY MODIFIERS for abilities or
Keywords that apply to the Injury Roll.
** Armour Characteristic: Add the -INJURY
MODIFIER of the model’s Armour
Characteristic (if any).
** Battlekit: Add the -INJURY MODIFIER for the
model’s Battlekit (e.g. Armour, Shield, etc.).
BLOOD MARKERS
During a battle your warriors can be wounded. Wounds are
tracked with BLOOD MARKERS. A model cannot have more
than 6 BLOOD MARKERS at any one time. We recommend
using a red dice to keep track of the number of BLOOD
MARKERS on a model. Each time one of your models suffers a
wound, place a BLOOD MARKER next to it.
3

-- 3 of 4 --

When you make a Success Roll for the model, your opponent
may choose to spend one or more BLOOD MARKERS to
add -1 DICE. In addition, each time your opponent makes
an Injury Roll for the model, they may choose to spend one
or more BLOOD MARKERS to add -1 INJURY DICE,
making a serious injury far more likely.
BLOODBATH ROLLS
When you make an Injury Roll for an enemy model, you can
spend 6 BLOOD MARKERS (or 3 BLOOD MARKERS if
the target is Down) to convert the Injury Roll to a Bloodbath
Roll. To make a Bloodbath Roll, roll 3 dice and add all three
of them together, then look up the roll on the Injury Table.
BLESSING MARKERS
BLESSING MARKERS are similar to BLOOD MARKERS,
but specifically aid Success Rolls for the model. Each time
one of your models receives a blessing, place a BLESSING
MARKER next to it. When you take a Success Roll for the
model, you may choose to spend one or more BLESSING
MARKERS to add +1 DICE, and each time you make
an Injury Roll for the model you may spend one or more
BLESSING MARKERS to add -1 INJURY DICE.
DOWN RESULTS
You can show that a model is Down by placing the model on
its side. The following rules apply to a model that is Down:
** If a model is taken Down during its Activation, its Activation
ends immediately.
** Add -1 DICE to any rolls you take for a model that is Down.
** Add +1 INJURY DICE for a Melee Attack if the
target is Down.
** Until a model that is Down stands back up, it cannot be moved
for any reason unless it falls.
** A model that is Down stands back up when it is next Activated.
However, its Movement Characteristic is halved for the rest of
the Activation (including the bonus for charging).
ENDING THE ACTIVATION PHASE
Once you have taken any and all ACTIONS you wish, or have
failed a Risky Success Roll, your model’s Activation ends. Your
opponent can now Activate one of their models. The players
then alternate Activating models in this fashion until one
player runs out of models to Activate. Their opponent can then
Activate their remaining models one after the other until they
have all been Activated, then proceed to the Morale Phase.
The Morale Phase
In the Morale Phase, if half the models in your Warband are
Down or Out of Action (rounded up), you must make a Success
Roll. If the roll is a Success, your Warband carries on normally. If
the roll is a Failure, your Warband becomes Shaken.
SHAKEN WARBANDS
All Success Rolls made for a Shaken Warband are treated as
Risky Success Rolls. In the Morale Phase at the end of the next
turn you must make another Success Roll for your Warband,
even if less than half its models are Down or Out of Action.
If you succeed, your Warband is no longer Shaken (though
it may become so again if you fail a Morale check in a future
turn). However, if you fail your Warband flees, and you
immediately lose the game!
ENDING THE TURN
After the Morale Phase the Turn ends and a new one begins.
Important Rules Principles
LINE OF SIGHT
You will often need to check to see if a model has a “Line of
Sight” to another model or terrain piece. If you are unsure
whether a model has a Line of Sight to a target, stoop down
and take a look from behind the attacking model and check
if it can see any part of the target model (do not count the
target’s base, its hands or feet, or anything that is carried by or
attached to the target such as a weapon or banner), or any part
of a target terrain piece. Models can see all around (i.e. 360°)
and they may be pivoted to face any direction before the Line
of Sight is checked.
MODEL PLACEMENT
When you set up or move a model, it cannot be set up with
its base overlapping Impassable terrain or the base of another
model. You can set up a model so that part of its base is on the
battlefield or in terrain and the rest of its base is “in the air”, as
long as more than half of the model’s base is on the battlefield
or in terrain. With your opponent’s permission you can place
it in a safe location nearby so that there is no risk of it falling
over and being damaged (it will still count as being at the
location for all other purposes).
PRE-MEASURING
Unless the rules specifically tell you otherwise, you are
allowed to measure distances at any time. For example,
you can measure to see if you are in range for shooting,
charging, and so on.
ROLLING OFF
Sometimes a rule may require the players to “roll-off ”. To roll-
off, each player rolls a D6, and whoever rolls highest wins. You
cannot re-roll or modify the dice in a roll-off unless the roll is
a tie, in which case the players must take the roll-off again.
4

-- 4 of 4 --

