An Introductory Scenario
This scenario is designed to teach players the basics of Trench Crusade using a handful of models from the Carcass
Front Campaign box. The Warbands and Battlefield used here are smaller than the ones in a full game, but this
scenario covers all of the most important rules such as Activating your models, taking Success Rolls, using unique
Keywords, and dealing damage to each other. Enjoy!

-- 1 of 2 --

FORCES
This introductory scenario uses specific Warbands with specific models and Battlekit.
One player chooses the Procession of the Sacred Affliction Introductory Warband, and the other player chooses the
Heretic Naval Raider Introductory Warband.
THE BATTLEFIELD
This scenario uses a specific map for this game, as shown below, and both 4 Levant Hedgehogs and 2 Naval
Mines as the terrain for game. The players roll-off, and the winner sets up the terrain. Each piece of terrain must
be placed at least 4” away from any other piece of terrain. For this scenario, both of these types of terrain provide
cover. In addition, Levant Hedgehogs are Difficult terrain, and Naval Mines are Impassable terrain (thankfully,
they are duds!).
12"
3" 	3"
DEPLOYMENT ZONE
DEPLOYMENT ZONE
As a reminder:
** Cover: A model is in cover from another model if it is in
contact with a terrain piece that is at least ½” high and at
least as wide as its base, and the terrain piece lies between
it and the other model in such a way that it partially
blocks the Line of Sight between the two models.
** Difficult Terrain: Every 1” a model is moved across
Difficult Terrain counts as 2”.
** Impassable Terrain: Models cannot be moved onto or
across Impassable Terrain.
DEPLOYMENT
The players roll-off. The winner of the roll-off chooses which Deployment Zone will be theirs.
The other Deployment Zone is their opponent’s. The players then alternate deploying their models one at a time,
starting with the winner of the last roll-off. Models must be set up wholly within their own Deployment Zone. Once
the players have set up their models, deployment ends and the game begins.
GAME LENGTH
This scenario lasts four Turns.
VICTORY CONDITIONS
A player wins this scenario immediately if there are no enemy models on the battlefield.
OUTRO
Congratulations! You’ve played your first game of Trench Crusade. If things still don’t make sense, don’t worry – feel
free to replay this scenario as much as you need until you have the basics down. When you feel ready, you can build
the rest of your chosen Warband and play a full game at 700 Ducats. Scenarios are available in the Trench Crusade
Rulebook and Trench Crusade Digital Rulebook, and you can also use the Random Scenario Generator in the
Carcass Front Book to generate a quick scenario to play.
Levant Hedgehogs x4
(Difficult Terrain)
Naval Mines x2
(Impassable Terrain)

-- 2 of 2 --

