Trench Dispatch
#1
April 2026 Rules Updates
This is an unofficial, fan-made digital rules update for Trench Crusade, collecting all rules from the April Rules Update in
one convenient place. It is provided free of charge for personal use and may be freely downloaded and printed. This
document is not an official Trench Crusade publication and is not affiliated with or endorsed by Factory Fortress Inc.

-- 1 of 18 --

April 2026 Rules Updates
You can find all of these April Rules Review updates here, on Trench Wire articles:

Infiltrators

Grenades

Amalgam and Strains

Iron Sultanate

Mercenaries

The Court Rules Review Hotfix




Important:


This is an unofficial, fan-made digital rules update for Trench Crusade, collecting all rules from the
April Rules Update in one convenient place. It is provided free of charge for personal use and may
be freely downloaded and printed. This document is not an official Trench Crusade publication and
is not affiliated with or endorsed by Factory Fortress Inc.
Infiltrators
Public Beta
INFILTRATOR
Replace the INFILTRATOR Keyword with:


INFILTRATOR (Effect): When a model with this Keyword is deployed for the first time in a game, it can be set up
anywhere on the battlefield as long as it is out of the Line of Sight of all enemies and is at least 8” away from the closest
enemy. INFILTRATORS are deployed after models that do not have this Keyword. Any INFILTRATORS that
cannot be deployed in this way for any reason can instead deploy up to 6” outside their side’s deployment zone.
01

-- 2 of 18 --

Grenades
Public Beta
Replace the Grenades rule on page 78 of the “Trench Crusade Digital Rulebook” with:

Grenades


Grenades have a Range and can be used to perform a Ranged Attack even though they are not specifically a Ranged Weapon (▶ see
the Core Rules). They do not count towards the number of Ranged Weapons a model can have, and a model is assumed to be
carrying enough to be able to use them every Turn. Grenades that have the BLAST Keyword cannot target a point on the battlefield
(they can only target an enemy model).
Keywords
(Effect)	FUMBLE
If the Success Roll for an attack made with a Weapon that has the FUMBLE Keyword is 2 or less, then the attacking model fumbles
the attack and hits themselves instead of the target. Treat the attack as a successful attack made by the Weapon that targeted the
attacking model.
Stosstruppen of the Free State of Prussia


Change Masters of the Grenade to:


Masters of the Grenade: Add 4” to the Range of all Grenades used by models from a Stosstruppen of the Free State of Prussia
Warband. However, if the range to the target is more than 8”, add -1 DICE to the Success Roll for the attack.
Warband Entries


Combat Engineer


Change the Profile of a Combat Engineer to:
Movement
6”/Infantry
Ranged
+1 DICE
Melee
+0 DICE
Armour
-2
Base
25mm
Battlekit


Add the FUMBLE Keyword to:


Frag Grenades

Gas Grenades

Incendiary Grenades

Molotov Cocktail

Demonic Aura Grenade

Holy Grenade

Parasite Grenades
Armoury Tables


Change the Cost of Incendiary Grenades to 10 	in the
following Armoury Tables:


New Antioch

Trench Pilgrims

Iron Sultanate

Heretic Legions

The Court
Note that: 
Satchel Charges and Warcrosses do not have the FUMBLE Keyword)
02

-- 3 of 18 --

Strains & Amalgam - Strains
Public Beta
Replace the Grail Thrall and Amalgam Warband Entries with the following:


Grail Thralls - Cost: 25

The boons of the Cult of the Black Grail lead slowly but surely down the path of utter corruption. Only very few of the chosen can
withstand the blessings of the Lord of the Flies. Most are turned into Grail Thralls, destined to join the endless legions of empty, hollowed-
out and diseased husks who must obey the whims of the Cult of the Black Grail nobles for all eternity, while suffering the torment of their
countless supernatural infections.
Movement
5”/Infantry
Ranged
-
Melee
-1 DICE
Armour
0
Base
25mm
Battlekit
Abilities
Keywords
A Grail Thrall cannot have any Battlekit but can have up to 1 Strain.
✥ Overwhelming Horde: A Grail Thrall can make a Melee Attack even though it does not have a Melee Weapon. In
addition, add +1 DICE to the Success Roll for a Melee Attack made by a Grail Thrall for each other friendly model
within 3” of the attacking model (not including the attacking model itself).


✥ Undead Fortitude: Add -1 INJURY DICE to Injury Rolls for a Grail Thrall unless the attack has the FIRE
Keyword.
BLACK GRAIL 	FEAR 	NEGATE GAS
Grail Strains

Many are Beelzebub’s twisted iterations of the Black Grail, and nowhere else are they better seen than in the myriad hordes of
Grail Thralls – perfect seedbeds in which new rot can bloom. Strains can be purchased upon recruiting a model or during the
Quartermaster Step at the indicated cost in 	. If the total cost of all of the other models in the Warband (including their
Battlekit, etc.) adds up to 1000 	or higher, Grail Thralls may have an additional Strain. Once a model has a Strain, it cannot
be removed or lost for any reason.


✥ Bolgias Gut (10 	): A model with the Bolgias Gut Strain can take a Burst ACTION. In addition, if an enemy model
finishes a move within 3” of a model with the Bolgias Gut Strain, you can interrupt its Activation and explode without having
to take a Burst ACTION.

Burst ACTION: A model with the Bolgias Gut Strain can take a Burst ACTION. In addition, if an enemy model finishes a
move within 3” of a model with the Bolgias Gut Strain, you can interrupt its Activation and explode without having to take a
Burst ACTION. 

✥ Hellfly Host (0 	): A model with the Hellfly Host Strain replaces their Movement Characteristic with 6”/Flying and gains the
FLYING Keyword. In addition, a model with the Hellfly Host Strain loses the Undead Fortitude ability.


✥ Leech Grip (7 	): A model with the Leech Grip Strain has a Melee Characteristic of +0. In addition, whenever an enemy
model takes a Retreat ACTION within 1” of a model with the Leech Grip Strain, place 1 BLOOD MARKER next to the model
taking the retreat (before any melee attacks are made against the retreating model).


✥ Tapeworm Throng (10 	):

Add -1 DICE to rolls for Ranged Attacks that target a model with the Tapeworm Throng Strain if they are within Short Range
of the attacking model. This Strain has no effect if the model has the NEGATE FEAR Keyword.
03

-- 4 of 18 --

Strains & Amalgam - Amalgam
Public Beta
Replace the Grail Thrall and Amalgam Warband Entries with the following:


0-1 Amalgam - Cost: 150

An Amalgam is a huge, shambling mass of dozens of bodies of infected enemy warriors, insects, mammals and any other living creatures that had the
misfortune of succumbing to the agonising blessings of the Cult of the Black Grail together. These aberrations shamble across the battlefield like
walking mountains of corpulent, diseased flesh, their flailing arms still wielding weapons its victims used in life. Anyone or anything unfortunate
enough to be in its path is crushed into a disgusting pulp beneath its elephantine feet.
Movement
5”/Infantry
Ranged
+0 DICE
Melee
-1 DICE
Armour
-1
Base
60mm
Battlekit
Abilities
Keywords
An Amalgam always has a Gluttonous Arsenal. This weapon is part of the Amalgam and cannot be removed or
lost throughout the campaign for any reason. It cannot have any other Battlekit, but it can have up to 1 Vile
Corpus.
✥ Absorb: When a model (friend or foe) within 1” of an Amalgam is taken Out of Action, you may remove a BLOOD
MARKER from the Amalgam’s model. If the model that is taken Out of Action is mounted on a base that is 40mm or
larger and the Amalgam’s TOUGH Keyword has been used, the Amalgam no longer counts as having used the TOUGH
Keyword and may use it again the next time it is taken Out of Action.


✥ Corpulent: Add -2 INJURY DICE to Injury Rolls for any attacks that target an Amalgam model.


✥ Curse on Creation: If the total cost of all of the other models in the Warband (including their Battlekit, etc.)
adds up to 1000 	or higher, in any Promotion Step after making all Advancement Rolls, you can remove 6
Grail Thralls from your Warband Roster. If you do so, increase the Limit of Amalgams your Warband can have
to 0-2, and immediately recruit an Amalgam at no cost in 	.


✥ Trample ACTION: An Amalgam can take a Trample ACTION. If it does so, it can make a Melee Attack
that must target an enemy model that is Down. A Trample Melee Attack does not use a Melee Weapon and has
the IGNORE ARMOUR Keyword.


✥ Unstoppable: Enemy models that are mounted on a base that is 32mm or smaller are not allowed to make a
Melee Attack when an Amalgam that is within 1” of them retreats. In addition, an Amalgam can take a Move or
Charge ACTION if all enemy models within 1” of it are mounted on bases that are 32mm or smaller.
BLACK GRAIL 	FEAR 	NEGATE GAS 	TOUGH
Gluttonous Arsenal

The Amalgam absorbs the remnants of battle, consuming, digesting, and readopting fallen arms into a vile armoury of
cascading violence.
Type 	Ranged 	Keywords
Special 	Melee/16” 	ASSAULT, AUTOMATIC 3, CLEAVE 3
✥ Putrid Spray: ACTION: Melee Attacks made with a Gluttonous Arsenal have the INFECTION MARKERS Keyword.
04

-- 5 of 18 --

Strains & Amalgam
Public Beta
Vile Corpus Abilities

ach Amalgam can have 1 Vile Corpus, which can be purchased when recruiting the model or during the
Quartermaster Step at the indicated cost in 	. Once an Amalgam has a Vile Corpus, it cannot be removed or lost
for any reason. In addition, each Amalgam in a Warband must have a different Vile Corpus.
Type 	Ranged 	Keywords
Special 	Melee/16” 	ASSAULT, AUTOMATIC 3, CLEAVE 3
✥ Bombardment Horde (20 	): An Amalgam with this Vile Corpus has a Ranged Characteristic of +1 DICE
and a Melee Characteristic of +0 DICE. In addition, when this model takes a Shoot ACTION with its
Gluttonous Arsenal, you can replace the AUTOMATIC 3 Keyword with the BLAST 3”and SCATTER
Keywords.
The Cult of the Black Grail Glory Items


Add the following entry to the BLACK GRAIL Glory Items Table:
Blessings of Beelzebub 	Lord of Tumours only, Limit: 1 	9
Glory Item Cartulary


Add the following Glory Item:


To face the Black Grail is to fight against both entropy and evolution. Left unchecked, the myriad Strains of Beelzebub’s
plaguecraft fester, strengthening their grip on even the lowliest of thralls. On rare occasions, tenacious members of the Order
of the Fly prove their worth to the Prince of Decay enough that he offers his foetid blessing, advancing these Strains faster
than otherwise possible.
Type 	Ranged 	Keywords
Special 	- 	-
✥ Favoured Strain: At the start of each game, choose 1 Strain. Friendly models that have the chosen Strain gain the
additional Favoured effects listed below for the rest of the game.


✥ Bolgias Gut Favoured: Burst ACTIONS taken by model with the Bolgias Gut Strain do not have the -1 INJURY
DICE Keyword.


✥ Hellfly Host Favoured: A model with the Hellfly Host Strain gains the Undead Fortitude ability.


✥ Leech Grip Favourede: Place D3 BLOOD MARKERS next to any enemy model that takes a Retreat ACTION
while within 1” of a model with the Leech Grip Strain instead of 1 BLOOD MARKER.


✥ Tapeworm Throng Favoured: The Long Range modifier for Ranged Attacks that target a model with the
Tapeworm Throng Strain is -2 DICE instead of -1 DICE.
05

-- 6 of 18 --

Iron Sultanate
Public Beta
Armoury Tables


Replace the Grail Thrall and Amalgam Warband Entries with the following:
Ranged Weapons
Alaybozan 	Sultanate Sappers only, Shield Combo 	10
Melee Weapons
Halberd-Gun 	ELITE only, Shield Combo, Limit: 2 	30
Grenades
Gas Grenades 	Limit: 4 	10
Equipment
Al-inbīq Kit 	Jabirean Alchemist only 	15
Alchemical Fire 	ELITE only, Limit: 3 	10
Corrosive Ammunition 	Limit: 5 	10
Battlekit


Add/replace the following entries in the Iron Sultanate Battlekit:
Al-inbīq Kit | 15 	| Jabirean Alchemist only

Were a Takwin to become seriously damaged on the front lines, a Jabirean Alchemist often comes prepared with a field
repair kit consisting of talisman-engraved alembics. Such is the potency of this blessed process perfected by Jabir ibn Hayyan
himself that the mere scent of the distilled vapors can cause the artificial flesh of the Takwin creature to rapidly re-knit.
Type 	Ranged 	Keywords
Equipment 	- 	-
✥ 'Ilm al-Mīzān ACTION: A model with an Al-inbīq Kit can take an 'Ilm al-Mīzān ACTION if it is not within 1” of
any enemy models. If it does so, make a Risky Success Roll for the model. If the roll is a Failure, nothing happens and
the model’s Activation ends. If the roll is a Success or a Critical Success, pick 1 friendly model with the ARTIFICIAL
Keyword within 6” and in Line of Sight of the Jabirean Alchemist. The model you pick can stand back up at no cost to
their movement, and you can remove up to D3 BLOOD MARKERS and/or INFECTION MARKERS from the
model.
06

-- 7 of 18 --

Iron Sultanate
Public Beta
Alaybozan | 10 	| Sultanate Sappers only, Shield Combo

This blunderbuss is based on the traditional design of tribal warriors and modernised by the foundries of the Sultanate. It
has proven its worth as the preferred weapon of the Sapper Corps, who often fight in close quarters. It shoots a hail of lead
bullets and iron shrapnel.
Type 	Ranged 	Keywords
2-Handed 	12” 	SHOTGUN, SHRAPNEL
Alchemical Fire | 10 	| ELITE only, Limit: 3

So hot and pure does this green fire used by the House of Wisdom burn that neither infernal flesh nor orichalcum plate can
deter its destructive heat.
Type 	Ranged 	Keywords
Equipment 	- 	-
✥ Unfettered Flame: Injury Rolls caused by Ranged Attacks made by a model with Alchemical Fire are unaffected by
the NEGATE FIRE Keyword.
Corrosive Ammunition | 10 	| Limit: 5

The rate at which the forges of Jahannam advanced their armour-craft forced those associated with the Iron Wall to explore
equally advanced corrosive ammunition. The alchemagi of the House of Wisdom often use catabolic sigils wrought to
command the Elements to part, whereas the mystics of the Fida’i are known to use secret acids, Djinn-blood curses, or slugs
etched with time-bending talismans that rapidly rust and rot enemy armour.
Type 	Ranged 	Keywords
Equipment 	12” 	AMMUNITION (ARMOUR PIERCING)
✥ Volatile Concoction: Corrosive Ammunition can only be used with an Alaybozan, Halberd-Gun, Jezzail, or Siege
Jezzail (even though the Alaybozan has the SHRAPNEL Keyword). In a campaign, you cannot reallocate Corrosive
Ammunition to another model.
Flame Cannon | 60 	| Brazen Bull only, Limit: 1

A great cannon that shoots a stream of alchemical fire with tremendous force. It has a tendency to overheat and ignite the
skin of its artillery crew, but the mighty Brazen Bulls use them as mere handguns. The secret formula used for the fuel of the
flame cannons was gleaned from the ruins of lost Constantinople and is commonly known as Greek fire.
Type 	Ranged 	Keywords
1-Handed 	12” 	ASSAULT, FIRE, HEAVY, IGNORE ARMOUR
✥ Greek Fire: When a Flame Cannon is used to make a Ranged Attack, do not make a Success Roll for the attack.
Instead, measure a straight line 1mm wide and up to 12” long from the attacking model to a point on the ground or a
model’s base. The line stops if it reaches a terrain piece that is taller than the model making the Attack. Make an Injury
Roll for every model (friend or foe) that is touched by the line, apart from the attacking model itself.
Halberd-Gun | 30 	| ELITE only, Shield Combo, Limit: 2

An invention of the House of Wisdom, this weapon acts both as a symbol of high rank and an excellent weapon in combat.
Type 	Ranged 	Keywords
2-Handed 	Melee/24” +1 INJURY DICE, ASSAULT, BLOCK, CUMBERSOME,
HEAVY
07

-- 8 of 18 --

Iron Sultanate
Public Beta
M.U.R.A.D. Bombard | 50 	| Brazen Bull only, Limit: 1

Named after the great Sultan who commissioned the first of these weapons to defend the Iron Wall, this mighty bombard is
used to disrupt advancing enemy formations. The echo of its blast recites the 99 names of Allah, throwing even the greatest
of warriors to ground like chaff.
Type 	Ranged 	Keywords
1-Handed 	36” 	+1 DICE, BLAST 3”, HEAVY, SCATTER
✥ Echoing Blast: If the Success Roll for a Ranged Attack with an M.U.R.A.D. Bombard that targets an enemy model
is a Success or a Critical Success, or if the attack is a Failure and the target point scatters onto a model's base, apply the
effect of the DEADLY Keyword to the Injury Roll for that model. All other models caught in the M.U.R.A.D.
Bombard’s blast radius, or that are in the M.U.R.A.D. Bombard's blast radius if it did not hit the target model or scatter
onto a model's base, are taken Down (do not make an Injury Roll for them).
The Sultanate of the Iron Wall Glory Items


dd the following entry to the SULTANATE Glory Items Table:
Regimental Kaşık 	Janissaries & Yüzbaşı with Janissary Veteran only, Limit: 1 	4
Glory Item Cartulary


Add the following Glory Item:


Regimental Kaşık

Though it may appear to others as an unassuming copper pot, the Kazan symbolises the fraternity and brotherhood of the
Sultan’s elite. Each Janissary carries with them their own ceremonial spoon known as a kaşık, with which they take great
honour in using as they share their communal meals. The more experienced or storied amongst the Janissaries also bear the
honorific of çorbacı, or “soup cook”, which they represent by carrying a larger Regimental Kaşık.
Type 	Ranged 	Keywords
Equipment 	- 	LEADER
✥ Brotherhood of the Spoon: Do not count friendly Janissaries that are Down or have been taken Out of Action in
the Morale Phase whilst there is a friendly Janissary with a Regimental Kaşık on the battlefield. In addition, this counts
as a Musical Instrument for the purposes of the Mehterân ability.
Warband Entries


Amend the Janissaries and Lions of Jabir Warband Entries as follows:


Janissaries


Replace the Counter Charge ability with the following ability:
✥ Mehterân: Add +1 DICE to Risky Success Rolls for a Janissary that is taking a Dash
ACTION and is within 4” of a friendly model with a Musical Instrument (for a total of +2
DICE including the Musical Instrument’s Fanfare special rule).
08

-- 9 of 18 --

Iron Sultanate
Public Beta
Lions of Jabir


Add the following ability:
✥ Ferocious Claws: Lions of Jabir models can add the CLEAVE 2 Keyword to their Melee
Attacks at a cost of +5 	each.
Replace the Yüzbaşı and Brazen Bull Warband Entries with the following:


1 Yüzbaşı - Cost: 75
An Iron Sultanate Warband must include 1 Yüzbaşı.
Military expeditions over the Great Iron Wall into No Man’s Land carry many risks, and their commanders are field
officers known as Yüzbaşı. They are expected to lead from the front, and their selection is solely on merit, with no
consideration given to family pedigree or wealth. Yüzbaşı are selected from amongst the very best soldiers of the Sultanate,
and their bodies are hardened against injury by the Jabirean arts.
Movement
6”/Infantry
Ranged
+2 DICE
Melee
+2 DICE
Armour
0
Base
32mm
Battlekit
Abilities
Keywords
A Yüzbaşı can have any Battlekit from the Iron Sultanate Armoury Tables.
✥ Janissary Veteran: You can make the Yüzbaşı a Janissary Veteran with the Janissary Mehterân ability at
a cost of +5 	.


✥ Mehterân (Janissary Veterans only): Add +1 DICE to Risky Success Rolls for a Yüzbaşı that is
taking a Dash ACTION and is within 4” of a friendly model with a Musical Instrument (for a total
of +2 DICE including the Musical Instrument’s Fanfare special rule).


✥ Mubarizun: A Yüzbaşı is expected to face the mightiest of their enemies in personal combat,
inspiring the troops to victory with their personal prowess. Add +1 INJURY DICE for attacks made
by a Yüzbaşı if the target model has the TOUGH Keyword.
SULTANATE 	ELITE 	LEADER 	NEGATE FEAR 	STRONG 	TOUGH
09

-- 10 of 18 --

Iron Sultanate
Public Beta
Replace the Yüzbaşı and Brazen Bull Warband Entries with the following:


0-1 Brazen Bull - Cost: 115
A Brazen Bull is a monstrous being of immense power and vitality, capable of tearing even the bastard child of a demon
clean in half. The Sultan’s armourers equip the Bulls with heavy artillery that even the superhuman Janissaries cannot lift,
let alone use in battle: flame cannons, volley guns, and holy blades blessed by the Word of the Great Protector.
Movement
6”/Infantry
Ranged
+0 DICE
Melee
+2 DICE
Armour
0
Base
60mm
Battlekit
Abilities
Keywords
A Brazen Bull can have Battlekit from the Iron Sultanate Armoury Tables. It may only have Weapons
that have the HEAVY Keyword and may not have a Shovel unless it is a Marid Shovel. No restrictions
apply to any other Types of Battlekit.
✥ Artificial Life: Add -1 INJURY DICE to Injury Rolls for a Brazen Bull.


✥ Living Battering Ram ACTION: If a Brazen Bull takes a Charge ACTION and ends its charge
move within 1” of any enemy models, it can immediately take a Living Battering Ram ACTION. If it
does so, make a Success Roll for each enemy model within 1” of the Brazen Bull. Add -1 DICE to the
Success Roll if the enemy model is on a base that is 40mm or larger. On a failure, nothing happens.
On a Success or a Critical Success, the enemy model is immediately taken Down.


✥ Trample ACTION: 	A Brazen Bull can take a Trample ACTION. If it does so, it can make a
Melee Attack that must target an enemy model that is Down. A Trample Melee Attack does not use a
Melee Weapon and has the IGNORE ARMOUR Keyword.
SULTANATE 	ARTIFICIAL 	FEAR 	NEGATE SHRAPNEL 	STRONG 	TOUGH
10

-- 11 of 18 --

Mercenaries
Public Beta
Add the following Keyword to the Keyword Glossary:
MERCENARY (Effect): This model is a Mercenary and can be recruited by various Factions. Mercenaries do not
benefit from Faction special rules that refer to ‘models in a [Faction] Warband’, such as the New Antioch Concentrated
Attack rule, including Warband Variant special rules, such as the Éire Rangers Light Infantry rule. They do count as
friendly models for the purposes of other rules used by their Warband, such as the Kingdom of Alba Assault
Detachment Bagpipe rules, unless stated otherwise. In a campaign, this includes counting towards Threshold Limits
and Field Strength, completing Glorious Deeds, rolling on the Trauma Table for them if they are ELITE and taken Out
of Action, being Promoted and gaining Experience Points, and so on. A Mercenaries’ Battlekit cannot be removed or
lost over the course of the campaign for any reason, and they cannot have any other Battlekit. Note that the Injury
Modifier for any Armour they have has been included in the model’s Profile.
Combat Biologist


Replace the recruitment sentence with:


A Combat Biologist is Faithful and can be recruited as a Mercenary by NEW ANTIOCH
and SULTANATE Warbands.


Replace the Keywords with:
MERCENARY 	NEGATE FEAR
Communicant Anti-Tank Hunter


Replace the recruitment sentence with:


A Communicant Anti-Tank Hunter is Faithful and can be recruited as a Mercenary by
NEW ANTIOCH and PILGRIM Warbands.


Replace the Keywords with:
MERCENARY 	REGENERATE 1 	STRONG 	TOUGH
Mamluk Faris


Replace the recruitment sentence with:


A Mamluk Faris is Faithful and can be recruited as a Mercenary by NEW ANTIOCH
and SULTANATE Warbands.


Replace the Keywords with:
MERCENARY 	FIRETEAM (▶ see Sworn Brethren)
IGNORE OFF-HAND WEAPON
11

-- 12 of 18 --

Mercenaries
Public Beta
Mendelist Ammo Monk


Replace the recruitment sentence with:


A Mendelist Ammo Monk is Faithful and can be recruited as a Mercenary by NEW ANTIOCH and PILGRIM
Warbands.


Replace the Ammunition Sacrament ACTION ability with:


✥ Ammunition Sacrament ACTION: A Mendelist Ammo Monk can take an Ammunition Sacrament ACTION. If
they do so, take a Risky Success Roll for the Mendelist Ammo Monk. If the roll is a Failure, the Mendelist Ammo Monk’s
Activation ends. If the roll is a Success or a Critical Success, pick 1 friendly model within 1" of the Mendelist Ammo Monk
and in their Line of Sight, and then pick one of the following Ammunition Sacraments. The Sacrament you pick applies to
the model until the end of its next Activation. A model cannot have more than one Sacrament at any given time.


✥ Bullet of the Guided Path Sacrament: Add the IGNORE COVER and IGNORE LONG RANGE Keywords to
Ranged Attacks made by Ranged Weapons used by the model.


✥ Cartridge of his Wrath Sacrament: Add the BLAST 2” and SHRAPNEL Keywords to Ranged Weapons used by
the model that do not have the AUTOMATIC, BLAST, HEAVY, or FLAMETHROWER Keywords.


✥ Echo of his Word Sacrament: Add +1 INJURY DICE to rolls for Ranged Attacks made by the model.


Replace the Keywords with:
MERCENARY
Observer


Replace the recruitment sentence with:


An Observer is Faithful and can be recruited as a Mercenary by NEW ANTIOCH and
PILGRIM Warbands.


Replace an Observer's Cost with 5


Replace the Keywords with:
MERCENARY
Sister of Saint Cosmas


Replace the recruitment sentence with:


A Sister of Saint Cosmas is Faithful and can be recruited as a Mercenary by PILGRIM
Warbands.


Replace the Keywords with:
MERCENARY 	NEGATE FEAR
12

-- 13 of 18 --

Mercenaries - Sin Eater
Public Beta
Sin Eater


Replace the Devour the Guilty ACTION ability with:
✥ Devour the Guilty ACTION: A Sin Eater can take a Devour the Guilty ACTION. If they do so, pick 1 model (friend or foe)
that is within 1” of the Sin Eater and is mounted on a base that is 40mm or smaller. If the model is an enemy, take a Risky Success
Roll for the Sin Eater. If the model is friendly, take a Success Roll for the Sin Eater with +1 DICE. If the roll is a Failure, nothing
happens and the Sin Eater’s Activation ends. If the roll is a Success or a Critical Success, the model you picked is devoured, and the
following rules apply to it:
✥ Place the model to one side, along with any MARKERS it may have. It is inside the Sin Eater and cannot be affected in any way
or carry out any ACTIONS except as described below. However, BLOOD MARKERS on the devoured model can be removed
to pay the cost of Goetic Spells. While it is in the Sin Eater, it is considered to be Down for the purposes of Morale Checks.


✥ A Sin Eater can only have 1 devoured model at a time. In addition, the Sin Eater has the REGENERATE 1 Keyword when it
has a devoured model.


✥ When a Sin Eater suffers an Out of Action result on the Injury table (even if it becomes a Down result due to the TOUGH
Keyword), deploy the devoured model within 1” of the Sin Eater and place it Down. Models deployed this way may be placed
within 1” of enemy models. If this is impossible, the model is taken Out of Action. If the Sin Eater was taken Out of Action,
remove it from the battlefield after deploying the devoured model.


✥ If a devoured model is still inside a Sin Eater when the game ends, it is considered to have been taken Out of Action.


✥ Each time the Sin Eater is Activated, place 1 BLOOD MARKER next to the devoured model. As soon as a devoured model has 6
BLOOD MARKERS, it is immediately taken Out of Action (even if the model has TOUGH or another rule that would prevent the
model from being taken Out of Action) and is no longer considered to be inside the Sin Eater.


✥ A Sin Eater that has a devoured model inside it can take a Purge ACTION. If it does so, deploy the devoured model within 1”
of the Sin Eater and place it Down. If you cannot deploy the devoured model within 1” of the Sin Eater due to terrain or other
models, then it remains inside the Sin Eater. Note that unlike the normal rules for model placement, you can deploy the enemy
model within 1” of the Sin Eater in such a manner that they would fall. Once released the model can be Activated normally. A Sin
Eater may not target a model with the Devour the Guilty ACTION that it has purged in the same Activation.


Replace the Tenderiser Maul Battlekit with:
Tenderiser Maul

The Sin Eater wields an enormous maul, a terrifying weapon and a tool for mulching fallen opponents into a disgusting pulp,
which it consumes in great gluttonous gulps.
Type 	Ranged 	Keywords
2-Handed 	Melee 	+1 INJURY MODIFIER, HEAVY
✥ Mulch: When a model armed with a Tenderiser Maul takes a Fight ACTION, you must choose if the model takes a
Crushing Blow or a Swinging Blow:
Crushing Blow: Injury Rolls for an attack made with a Crushing Blow have the +2 INJURY MODIFIER Keyword
instead of the +1 INJURY MODIFIER Keyword.

Swinging Blow: Make 1 Melee Attack against each enemy model within 1” of the attacking model. Resolve each Melee
Attack one at a time in the order of your choice.
Replace the Keywords with:
MERCENARY, 	DEMONIC 	FEAR 	STRONG 	TOUGH
13

-- 14 of 18 --

Mercenaries - Scripture Guardian
Public Beta
Replace the Scripture Guardian, Goetic Warlock and Witchburner Mercenary Entries with the following:


0-1 Scripture Guardian - Cost: 7


A Scripture Guardian is a Mercenary that can be recruited by any Warband. The Scripture Guardian has the
same alignment as the Warband they are recruited into.
The origins of the Scripture Guardians remain shrouded in mystery, though rumours suggest they were created by the great masters of
Kabbalah. Accounts of their existence began circulating in the early days of the Great War as the destruction of Jerusalem unearthed
tombs and sacred resting places. Those who had once been interred in peace now wander the unhappy land, endlessly reciting the sacred
writings entrusted to them in death. On rare occasions, expeditions into No Man’s Land have encountered such creatures, and by placing
a holy text of their faith into its hands, they have transformed the Scripture Guardian into a powerful ally, bound to the will of those who
align with the holy (or desecrated) scroll or tome it holds.


Capable of speaking and reading the One True Language, the Scripture Guardian can unleash the powers it calls upon against anyone its
master commands. It carries out its purpose with the single-mindedness of an automaton, devoid of thought or empathy. When spoken by
the Guardian, the words are imbued with the primordial power of Creation, and capable of unmaking anything in their path. The
longer the Guardian concentrates on its target, the greater the power it channels.
Movement 	Ranged 	Melee 	Armour 	Base
6”/Infantry 	+2 DICE 	+1DICE 	-2 	40mm
Battlekit
Abilities
Keywords
A Scripture Guardian always has Reinforced Armour, Combat Helmet, and a Vengeful Scripture. In
addition, it must have either two 1-Handed Melee Weapons or one 2-Handed Melee Weapon. You
must purchase the Melee Weapons from your Faction Armoury Tables at their normal Cost, and you
must obey any stipulations that apply to the weapons you choose (e.g. ELITE only, Limit: 1 etc.).
Vengeful Scripture and the weapons you choose cannot be removed or lost over the course of the
campaign for any reason.
✥ Slow: Treat a Scripture Guardian as having a Movement Characteristic of 3”/Infantry when it
takes a Dash ACTION.
MERCENARY 	GOLEM
Vengeful Scripture

The Scripture Guardian reads words from the holy (or unholy) text it carries, unmaking foes with words of primordial power.t
Type 	Ranged 	Keywords
Special 	18” 	ASSAULT, IGNORE COVER
✥ Unmaking: Add +1 INJURY MODIFIER for each BLOOD MARKER the enemy has (in addition to any benefits you
receive if you spend them to affect the Injury Roll). If the Success Roll for a Ranged Attack made with Vengeful Scripture is a
Critical Success, make an Injury Roll for the enemy model with IGNORE ARMOUR, add +1 INJURY DICE, and a +1
INJURY MODIFIER for each BLOOD MARKER the enemy model has.


✥ Spoken: A model may make a Ranged Attack with Vengeful Scripture even if it is within 1” of an enemy model.
14

-- 15 of 18 --

Mercenaries - Goetic Warlock
Public Beta
0-1 Goetic Warlock - Cost: 4


A Goetic Warlock is Fallen and can be recruited as a Mercenary by HERETIC and THE COURT Warbands.
Goetic Warlocks are nightmarish creations forged in the death factories of the Third Circle of Hell. Captured priests, prophets, vicars,
rectors, and monks are tortured in fiendish machines that burn away their flesh with hellfire, encasing their still-living skeletons in
infernal suits of armour, and stamping them with Goetic runes. Thus, a new Goetic Warlock is born, now a ruthless predator, driven to
hunt the very mortals they once swore to protect.
Movement 	Ranged 	Melee 	Armour 	Base
6”/Infantry 	+1 DICE 	+1DICE 	-2 	40mm
Battlekit 	A Goetic Warlock always has Reinforced Armour and Flaying Iron Claws. These pieces of Battlekit can never be
removed or lost.
Powers 	Goetic Warlocks use Goetic Powers (▶ see Goetic Powers in The Court’s Special Rules). However, a Goetic
Warlock can only remove BLOOD MARKERS from enemy models, or friendly Wretched models when paying
the Cost to cast a Goetic Spell. A Goetic Warlock always has the Goetic Portal and Necrotic Gaze Goetic Powers.
Abilities 	✥ Barbed Embrace: An enemy model within 1” of a Goetic Warlock cannot take a Retreat ACTION. In
addition, place 1 BLOOD MARKER next to enemy models that Activate within 1” of a Goetic Warlock.


✥ Disturbing Presence: Your opponent cannot remove BLOOD MARKERS from models they own whilst
they are within 1” of a Goetic Warlock.
Keywords MERCENARY 	ARTIFICIAL 	DEMONIC 	FEAR
Flaying Iron Claws
Type 	Ranged 	Keywords
2-Handed 	Melee 	CLEAVE 2, CRITICAL
Goetic Portal | Spell (Cost 2) | Goetic Warlock only
You must take a Cast Spell ACTION with the Goetic Warlock in order for it to cast this spell. If you do so, pick up the Goetic
Warlock and deploy it anywhere on the battlefield within 6” of the location it originally occupied (measured from the centre
of its base to the centre of its base). This does not count as Moving or Retreating for the purposes of other rules. In addition,
if the Goetic Warlock is within 1” of any enemy models on a base that is 32mm or smaller, then the Goetic Warlock can take 1
of the enemy models with it. If you do so, you must deploy the Goetic Warlock first and then deploy the enemy model within
1” of the Goetic Warlock. If you cannot deploy the enemy model within 1” of the Goetic Warlock due to terrain or other
models, then the enemy model stays in its original location. Note that you can deploy the enemy model within 1” of the
Goetic Warlock in such a manner that they would fall
Necrotic Gaze | Spell (Cost 0) | Goetic Warlock only

You must take a Cast Spell ACTION with the Goetic Warlock in order for it to cast this spell. If you do so, make a Ranged
Attack with a Range of 24”. If the Success Roll for the Ranged Attack is a Success or Critical Success, do not make an Injury
Roll. Instead, double the number of BLOOD MARKERS the target model has (a model still cannot have more than 6
BLOOD MARKERS). If the target model has no BLOOD MARKERS, place 1 BLOOD MARKER next to them.
15

-- 16 of 18 --

Mercenaries - Witchburner
Public Beta
0-1 Witchburner - Cost: 6


A Witchburner is Faithful and can be recruited as a Mercenary by NEW ANTIOCH and PILGRIM Warbands.
Witchburners are the field officers of the Inquisition, charged with hunting down and punishing witches, warlocks, and Heretics who
cannot be brought to face justice by conventional means. Each Witchburner spends seven years in confrontation with stones carved from
one of the Hellgates, body inured by radiant hellfire and mind fortified by enduring scrutiny of the enemy’s twisted ways. Inviolable of
purpose, their stride towards judgement is unbreaking in even the most hazardous fronts, regarding concussive artillery and suppressive
strikes as nothing more than dust meant to be brushed away. On the battlefield, they wield the power to call down divine retribution on
those deemed to have transgressed against God, causing sinners to burst into flames with mere words of condemnation. Since none are
without sin, none are truly safe.
Movement 	Ranged 	Melee 	Armour 	Base
6”/Infantry 	+0 DICE 	+2DICE 	-2 	32mm
Battlekit 	A Witchburner always has Reinforced Armour, a Combat Helmet, and a Gavel of Justice.
Abilities 	✥ Dignified Conduct: Witchburners are well aware of the dignity of their status. A Witchburner cannot take
the Dash ACTION. In addition, do not halve the Movement Characteristic of a Witchburner when it stands up
at the start of an Activation, and a Witchburner can never be moved by an ability or ACTION taken by an
enemy model.


✥ Divine Judgement ACTION: A Witchburner can take a Divine Judgement ACTION. If you do so, the
Witchburner can make a Ranged Attack with a Range of 18”. The attack has the FIRE, IGNORE COVER,
and IGNORE LONG RANGE Keywords, and does not require Line of Sight. In addition, when a model
suffers an Out of Action result on the Injury Table from an attack made with Divine Judgement, it is treated as a
Down result instead.


✥ Elitist: Enemy models that do not have the ELITE Keyword are not allowed to make a Melee Attack when a
Witchburner that is within 1” of them retreats. In addition, a Witchburner can make a Move or Charge
ACTION if no enemy models within 1” of it have the ELITE Keyword.


✥ Found Guilty: After making an Injury Roll for an attack made with Divine Judgement or a Gavel of Justice,
place 1 extra BLOOD MARKER next to the model if the model is part of a Fallen Warband (even if the Injury
Roll result is No Effect).
Keywords MERCENARY 	ELITE 	FEAR 	TOUGH 	NEGATE DIFFICULT TERRAIN
NEGATE FIRE
Gavel of Justice

The staff of a Witchburner is both a mark of their office and a weapon imbued with the wrath of God against those who have
broken divine law. It dooms the souls of those found guilty to burn in flames for all eternity.
Type 	Ranged 	Keywords
1-Handed 	Melee 	CRITICAL, FIRE
16

-- 17 of 18 --

The Court of the Seven-Headed Serpent
Public Beta
Goetic Powers


Add the following sentence to the Goetic Powers special rule:
Goetic Powers can be purchased for a model when it is recruited, or during the Quartermaster Step. However, you must pay 1 	for
each model that you wish to purchase a Goetic Power in the Quartermaster Step, representing the effort needed to learn a new power.
Armoury Tables


Amend the following entries in The Court Armoury Tables:
Ranged Weapons
Serpent Assault Gun 	Limit: 2 	45
Melee Weapons
Malebranche Sword 	Limit: 1 	35
Battlekit


Add the following special rule to the Torture Instrument:
✥ Down, Whelp: If an attack made with a Torture Instrument targets a friendly model and the Success Roll is a Success or a Critical
Success, do not roll on the Injury Table. Instead, the targeted friendly model is taken Down (the Agonising Injuries special rule still
applies to this Injury Result).
Warband Entries


Amend the Hell Knights, Wretched, and Desecrated Saint Warband Entries as follows:


Hell Knights


Add the following ability:
✥ Corpse Candles: A Hell Knight can have an Unholy Relic at a modified cost of 5 	each.
Wretched


Add the following ability:
✥ Goaded Forth: Add +1 DICE to the Risky Success Rolls for a Wretched that is taking a Dash ACTION if there is a friendly Yoke
Fiend within 8” and in Line of Sight.
Desecrated Saint


Add the following ability:
✥ Relentless: Do not halve the Movement Characteristic of a Desecrated Saint when it stands up at the start of an Activation.
Replace the Keywords with:
THE COURT 	DEMONIC 	FEAR 	IGNORE OFF-HAND 	NEGATE DIFFICULT TERRAIN
STRONG 	TOUGH
17

-- 18 of 18 --

